2015
ANNUAL
 REPORT
What You Can Expect From Us & What We Expect From Ourselves
Citi™s mission is to serve as a trusted partner to our clients by responsibly providing 
˜nancial services that enable growth and economic progress. Our core activities are 
safeguarding assets, lending money, making payments and accessing the capital markets 
on behalf of our clients. We have 200 years of experience helping our clients meet the 

world™s toughest challenges and embrace its greatest opportunities. We are Citi, the global 

bank Š an institution connecting millions of people across hundreds of countries and cities.
We protect people™s savings and help them make the purchases Š from everyday 
transactions to buying a home Š that improve the quality of their lives. We advise people on 

how to invest for future needs, such as their children™s education and their own retirement, 
and help them buy securities such as stocks and bonds.
We work with companies to optimize their daily operations, whether they need working 
capital, to make payroll or export their goods overseas. By lending to companies large 
and small, we help them grow, creating jobs and real economic value at home and in 
communities around the world. We provide ˜nancing and support to governments at all 

levels, so they can build sustainable infrastructure, such as housing, transportation, schools 
and other vital public works.
These capabilities create an obligation to act responsibly, do everything possible to create 
the best outcomes, and prudently manage risk. If we fall short, we will take decisive action 
and learn from our experience.
We strive to earn and maintain the public™s trust by constantly adhering to the highest 
ethical standards. We ask our colleagues to ensure that their decisions pass three tests: 
they are in our clients™ interests, create economic value, and are always systemically 
responsible. When we do these things well, we make a positive ˜nancial and social impact 

in the communities we serve and show what a global bank can do.
Citi™s Value Proposition:
 A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress
Financial Summary
In billions of dollars, except per-share amounts, ratios and direct staff
2015
2014
2013
Citicorp Net Revenues
$68.5$69.4
$69.9
Citi Holdings Net Revenues
7.8
7.8
6.8Citigroup Net Revenues
$76.3
$77.2
$76.7
Citicorp Net Income
16.210.8
15.5
Citi Holdings Net Income (Loss)
1.0
(3.5)
(1.9)
Citigroup Net Income
$17.2
$7.3
$13.7
Diluted EPS Š Net Income
5.40
2.20
4.34
Diluted EPS Š Income from Continuing Operations
5.42
2.20
4.25
Citicorp Assets
1,657
1,713
1,726
Citi Holdings Assets
74129
154Citigroup Assets
$1,731
$1,842
$1,880Deposits
907.9
899.3
968.3
Citigroup Stockholders™ Equity
221.9
210.2
204.0
Basel III Ratios Š Full Implementation
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
12.1
%10.6
%10.6
%Tier 1 Capital 
13.5
11.511.2Total Capital 
15.3
12.812.6Supplementary Leverage
7.1
5.9
5.4
Book Value per Share
$69.46
$66.05
$65.12
Common Shares Outstanding (millions)
2,953.3
3,023.9
3,029.2
Market Capitalization
$153
$164$158
Direct Staff (thousands)
231
241
251
Totals may not sum due to rounding.
1Our performance was driven by the 
discipline we applied to managing our 
 core businesses. On a constant dollar 

basis, we grew our revenues by 3 percent, 

while keeping our core operating expenses 
essentially ˚at, and grew our loans and 
deposits in our core franchise each by 
 5 percent. We also reduced the overall 
 size of our balance sheet and took assets 

in Citi Holdings down by over 40 percent 

from the prior year period.
After completing the sale of $32 billion 
of assets, including OneMain Financial 

and our retail banking and credit card 
businesses in Japan, we closed out 
 2015 with just under $75 billion in assets 

in Holdings, amounting to only 4 percent 
of our balance sheet. More signi˜cantly, 
Holdings was pro˜table for 2015. And 
 
we are committed to keeping Holdings 
 at least at break-even going forward.
We continued to make progress 
utilizing our Deferred Tax Assets 
(DTAs). And with a Common Equity 
Tier 1 Capital Ratio of 12.1 percent 

and a Supplementary Leverage Ratio 
of 7.1 percent, our capital position 
comfortably exceeded the regulatory 

thresholds for both ratios on a fully 
implemented basis. 
Our robust capital position was 
instrumental in achieving a positive 
result from the Federal Reserve™s 
2015 Comprehensive Capital Analysis 

and Review (CCAR). It allowed us to 
start returning meaningful capital 
to shareholders. We reduced our 

outstanding common shares by more 
than 70 million, increased our dividend 
and thereby returned nearly $6 billion 
 
in capital to shareholders.
Passing CCAR was a meaningful 
milestone in becoming the Citi we want to 

be. It also underscored our commitment 
to sustaining a capital planning process 
that satis˜es the deservedly high 

expectations placed on an institution of 
true global reach.
 In keeping with these 
expectations, we continued to invest in 

the compliance, control and regulatory 
functions critical to maintaining our 
license to do business.
Letter to 
Shareholders
Dear Fellow 
Shareholders:
2015 was a pivotal year 
for Citi. It was de˜ned 
by the tangible progress 
we made in a sustained 
effort to transform 
and reshape Citi into a 
simpler, smaller, safer 
and stronger institution 
Š more than it has been 
at any time since the 
˜nancial crisis.
From a net income perspective, the over 
$17 billion we earned in 2015 made it 
our best year since 2006. Putting that 
number in context, we generated strong 

earnings operating as a smaller company, 
with a lower headcount, more focused 
footprint, and dramatically different mix 

of businesses and assets from what Citi 
was a decade ago. In just the last three 
years we have strengthened our core 

businesses while reducing our headcount 
by 28,000, assets by over $130 billion, 
and legal entities by over one-third. We 

have shrunk our branch network by 
nearly 30 percent and eliminated 182 
operations centers, as part of our effort 

to establish shared service centers and 
mine the ef˜ciency opportunities in our 
business model.
Going into 2015 we set three goals for 
ourselves: to generate top-line growth, 
deliver modest positive operating 

leverage on our core expense base 
and signi˜cantly reduce the drag on 
earnings due to legal and repositioning 

costs. Even in a challenging economic 
environment, we achieved each of those 
objectives last year.
2015 was also a year when we assessed 
our progress against a series of goals 
and ˜nancial targets I laid out three 

years ago, just after I became CEO. 
Our ˜rst goal was to 
generate consistent 
and quality earnings
. We did that by 

focusing and reallocating our ˜nite 
resources while directing targeted 
investments to select businesses, product 

offerings, markets, client and customer 
segments and infrastructure where we 
saw a clear pathway to future growth.
Our second goal was to 
bring Citi Holdings to the breakeven point
. We did 
that, and more. In fact, we surpassed 

our original goal of driving Holdings to 
breakeven by keeping Holdings pro˜table 
for the year. 
Our third goal was to 
utilize our Deferred 
Tax Assets (DTAs)
. We did that by 
consuming over $7 billion of DTAs over 

three years, $1.5 billion of that in 2015. 
All of these results contributed 
to our progress towards our most 

important aspiration: to 
be known 
as an indisputably strong and stable 
institution
. The combination of net 

income, Holdings™ strong performance 
and DTA utilization resulted in the 
generation of $50 billion in regulatory 

capital over the past three years. 
 Our goal continues to be not only 
 the generation of capital but also 

increasing the return of that capital 
 to shareholders. 
At roughly the same time that we
 laid out those broad strategic goals we 
established three more speci˜c ˜nancial 
targets, which we pledged to do our 
 
best to achieve within a three-year 
 time horizon.
Three years later, how did we do?

Our ˜rst target was to 
achieve a Return 
on Assets (ROA)
 in a range of 90Œ110 
basis points, and by reaching 94 basis 

points, we hit it. Our second target was 
to 
achieve a Citicorp Ef˜ciency Ratio 
in the mid-˜fties range
. At 57 percent, 
we came close. And we made progress 
toward meeting our target of 
achieving a 
10 percent Return on Tangible Common 

Equity (ROTCE)
. We consider the 9.2 
percent return we achieved a respectable 
2Michael L. Corbat
Chief Executive Of˜cer
pace not just with our competitors 
but with our clients and customers 
by prioritizing the rapid digitization, 
mobilization and seamless connectivity 

of basic ˜nancial transactions. 
We are investing in our U.S. Credit Card 
business and positioning it for greater 

and faster growth. A signi˜cant sign 
of the success of that strategy was 
our announcement that we would be 

partnering with Visa to be the exclusive 
issuer of a co-branded credit card 
available to more than 50 million Costco 

members. Citi worked with Android Pay, 
Apple Pay and Samsung Pay to make 
mobile payment solutions available 

to U.S. customers and teamed with 
MasterCard to expand global acceptance 
of the Citi MasterPass digital wallet. 
And we continue to satisfy the desire 
of many of our customers for a more 
modern physical retail experience by 

launching Smart Banking
® branches in 
a number of high-growth urban centers 
around the world. To accelerate this 
mobile-˜rst approach, we established a 
new unit, Citi FinTech, to consolidate and 

concentrate the efforts we devote to the 
rapid development of a radically simple, 
connected mobile banking solution. 
In our Institutional Clients Group, we 
intend to build on our market share gains 
by continuing to focus on a comparatively 

smaller number of multi-national 
corporations, ˜nancial institutions, 
asset managers, hedge funds, private 

equity ˜rms and public sector entities 
with sophisticated needs for wholesale 
banking products and services. 
Last year, we also helped facilitate a 
number of landmark transactions, several 
of them record-setting. These included 

First Data Corporation™s $2.8 billion initial 
public offering, a $34 billion acquisition 
˜nancing package on behalf of Teva 

Pharmaceutical Industries (the second 
largest loan of the year), and our longtime 
client General Electric Company™s
 $36 
billion debt exchange offer, the largest 
transaction of its kind in history.
result in light of the fact that we only 
began to return meaningful capital to 
shareholders after passing CCAR last 

year. We remain committed to achieving 
an ROTCE in excess of 10 percent.
Many of our efforts in recent years have 
been to set us up to focus on the future 
of our two principal businesses. In 2015 
we began to shift our strategic posture 

from defense to offense in a number of 
areas, markets and businesses critical 
for future growth. While we remain in 

a dif˜cult environment, through our 
expense discipline we are creating the 
capacity to make targeted investments 

in businesses that are well positioned to 
drive revenue growth.
In our Global Consumer Bank, we 
continue to focus our footprint by exiting 
a number of markets where we couldn™t 
see a clear path to achieving a rate of 

return our investors expect and deserve. 
We are concentrating our physical 
presence in high-impact locations in 

leading urban centers. We are keeping 
3communities around the world where 
we live and work Š even more tangible 
support of our thesis that global 
institutions are uniquely positioned to 

help society address global problems on 
a global scale. 
It™s not easy to think of a greater or 
more daunting challenge than climate 
change. We announced our $100 
billion Sustainable Progress initiative, 

furthering our long-term commitment 
to lend, invest and facilitate ˜nancial 
solutions to reduce the impact of 
 
climate change.
Letter to 
Shareholders
We are con˜dent that we can continue 
to grow our Treasury and Trade 
Solutions business (TTS). Through the 
world™s largest proprietary closed-loop 

payment network, we provide seamless 
connectivity to the banking systems in 
nearly 100 countries, facilitating some 
 
$3 trillion worth of ˜nancial ˚ows each 
day in over 135 currencies. 
Far from seeing ourselves as a 
monolithic entity intent on crowding 
out smaller competitors, we de˜ne our 
role as being ﬁscaled to serveﬂ a speci˜c 

set of clients who rely on our global 
network, any of whom would simply take 
their business to global peers if for any 

reason we were prevented from meeting 
their needs. 
But we don™t just serve big businesses. 
In addition to being a leading provider 
of ˜nancial services to multinational 
corporations, last year our small business 

lending in the U.S. surpassed $10 billion, 
raising our total lending to the sector 
over four years to just under $40 billion. 

We also lent and invested nearly 
 $5 billion in affordable housing projects 

in the U.S. last year, making us the 

number one ˜nancer in a sector crucial to 
strengthening communities nationwide. 
2015 was also a year when we made 
progress in our role as one of the 
world™s leading global citizens. Over 
the last year, we were able to provide 

many of our stakeholders Š customers, 
clients, nonpro˜t partners and the 
10th Annual Global 
Community Day
During the past 10 years, Citi volunteers 
have participated in more than 11,000 
Global Community Day activities and 
contributed over 2 million hours 
 
of service.
We also are investing in the next 

generation of leaders. The Citi 
Foundation™s $50 million Pathways to 
Progress initiative in the U.S. is helping 

to close the skills gap between young 
prospective employees and employers 
 by helping them to acquire the 

workplace and leadership skills 
critical to competing in a 21
st century 
economy. More than a thousand of 

my Citi colleagues have donated their 
time and expertise to the program, 

which has reached more than 70,000 
out of our target of 100,000 young 
Note: Certain reclassi˜cations have been made to the prior periods™ presentation to conform to the current period™s pr
esentation.1  Citigroup
™s Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital ratio is a non-
GAAP ˜nancial measure. For additional information, please refer to Slide 39 of the Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Review available on the Citigroup In
vestor Relations website.2  Citigrou
p™s Supplementary Leverage Ratio (SLR) is a non-GAAP ˜nancial measur
e. For additional information, please refer to Slide 40 of the Fourth Quar
ter 2015 Earnings Review available on the Citigroup In
vestor Relations website.3  Tangible Book Value (TBV) per share is a non-GAAP ˜nancial measur
e. For a additional information, please refer to Slide 40 of the Fourth Quar
ter 2015 Earnings Review available on the Citigroup In
vestor Relations website.TBV/Share3Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 
Ratio1Supplementary Leverage Ratio2Citigroup Š Key Capital Metrics5.4%4Q™124Q™134Q™144Q™15Basel III Risk-Weighted As
sets (RWA) ($ Billion)
$1,206
$1,185$1,293$1,2168.7%$51.085.9%7.1%10.6
%10.6%12.1%$55.19$56.71$60.61Global Community Day offers a wide 
range of service opportunities that 
harness the enthusiasm and passion 
 of our diverse employees, with family 

and friends, to help meet the 
 pressing needs of our communities. 
In 2015, to celebrate our 10th annual 
Global Community Day, more than 
80,000 Citi volunteers in 487 cities 
spanning 93 countries and territories 
4people across ten cities. Buoyed by the 
resonance of this effort, the Foundation 
began to expand Pathways to Progress 
internationally.
Pathways to Progress is just one of a 
number of examples I could cite of the 
various programs we have developed 

to demonstrate our value to society. 
As part of our efforts to enable progress 

in cities across the globe, this annual 
event also highlights the depth of 
engagement Citi has with its partners 

to address local issues. For example, 
many U.S. youth who are part of the 
Citi Foundation™s 
Pathways to Progress
 
initiative planned and participated in 
volunteer events in 10 cities where the 
initiative has been implemented. 
And after spending my entire 32-year 

working career here at Citi, I™m both 

proud and convinced that the most 
important thing a leader can do is to 
work tirelessly to help create a company 

and a culture that 
all of its people Š from 
a diversity of backgrounds, nationalities, 
cultures, interests and perspectives Š are 

proud to go to work for each day. 
Last year, in furtherance of our 
commitment to advancing a more open 

and collaborative culture and holding 
ourselves to the highest possible ethical 
standards, we launched a re˜ned Mission 

and Value Proposition. For the ˜rst time, 
all of our people can see on one page a 
succinct description of what we do every 

day at the world™s global bank. You can 
read it on the inside cover. 
We also rolled out a new set of 
Leadership Standards, re˚ecting the ˜rst 
signi˜cant update of these important 
cultural, behavioral and ethical guidelines 

in ˜ve years. The overarching goal driving 
the roll-out of our new standards was to 
create a common language around what 

it means to be a leader at Citi. 
Looking back on our progress and 
performance, I would have to conclude 

that 2015 was a year when we saw 
indisputable evidence that our aspiration 
of returning Citi to its historic roots 

as the world™s most admired global 
consumer, commercial and institutional 
bank is in reach. 
We are well positioned to navigate 
an environment likely to remain 
challenging, whether those challenges 

arise from market volatility, revised 
growth expectations or political risk 

and uncertainty. We entered 2016 with 

a strong franchise Š a clear strategy, an 
enviable capital position and a balanced 
and tightly risk-managed portfolio 

designed to serve discrete sets of clients.
Perhaps our greatest accomplishment 
wasn™t quanti˜able according to any 

metric that I am aware of. Our ongoing 
investment of time, energy and focus to 
be constantly creating (and recreating) 

a company and a culture that I, and 
my 230,000 Citi colleagues around the 
world, are proud to work for every day is 

what matters most, at the end of the day 
and also at the end of the year. 
While such things are never easy 
to measure, I believe that the 
fruits of these efforts will provide 
lasting contributions to society, our 

communities and economic growth this 
year, and in the years to come. 
Sincerely,
Michael L. Corbat
Chief Executive Of˜cer, Citigroup Inc.
engaged in service activities to bene˜t 
their local communities. In the days 
leading up to and including Global 

Community Day, Citi colleagues, 
alumni, clients, family and friends 
worked side by side on more than 1,200 

service projects ranging from urban 
revitalization to literacy and education, 
career readiness, environmental 

conservation and disaster relief.
By Region
North America48%Asia19%Latin America17%Europe, 
Middle East and Africa16%1 Results exclude Corporat
e/Other.
By BusinessBy Region
By BusinessGlobal Consumer Banking50%ICG Markets and Securities Services24%ICG Banking26%ICG
 Š Institutional Clients Group
2015 Citicorp Net 
Revenues12015 Citicorp Net 
Revenues: $67
.6 Billion5The Global Consumer Bank (GCB) 
operates four geographical business 
lines Š Branded Cards, Retail Services, 
Retail Banking and Commercial Banking 
Š in Citi™s four regions: Asia; Europe, the 

Middle East and Africa (EMEA); Latin 
America; and North America. With more 
than a century of enviable brand and 

market leadership in markets like the U.S., 
Mexico and Asia, GCB is competitively 
well-positioned to grow a high credit-

quality customer base that bene˜ts most 
from our global capabilities.
In 2015, GCB delivered meaningful 
progress on strategic initiatives and 
set the foundation for growth. We 
streamlined our product suite and 

sharpened value propositions to drive 
new customer acquisition, concentrated 
our retail presence in top urban centers 

with our distinctive Smart Banking
® model and prioritized the digitization of 
our business today to re˚ect the massive 
shift in transaction activity to digital 

channels. We also continued to simplify 
and standardize systems and processes 
to improve ef˜ciency while accelerating 

the completion of a uniform technology 
platform in 2016.
To accelerate speed to market with next-
generation mobile banking capabilities, 
we established a new unit called Citi 
FinTech. This agile unit is charged with 

designing a mobile banking solution that 
delivers a radically simple, connected 
customer experience across the full 

range of client services: Borrow, Pay, 
Save, Invest and Protect. In addition 
Citi™s App for Apple Watch
In March 2015, Citi was the ˜rst U.S. 
bank to launch a banking app designed 
for Apple Watch
Ž. The app provides Citi 
U.S. debit and credit card clients with 

access to their account balances, recent 
transactions and real-time noti˜cations 

of credit card transactions right on their 
wrist. The app heralded a radically new 
visual and navigation style, based on 
a single-mindedly user-centric design. 

Citi™s digital team brought the app from 
concept to a ready-to-launch product in 
just under 120 days, illustrating the Global 

Consumer Bank™s transformation into a 
nimble, open banking model that can plug 
into the best skills and ideas. This marked 

the ˜rst time Citi was present at the birth 
of a new device class from Apple.
Global Consumer 
Banking
Citi™s Global Consumer 
Bank serves more than 

100 million customers
1 in the fastest-growing 

cities in 24 countries 

worldwide.
to bene˜ting from Citi™s distinct 
strengths, the team will engage the 
best capabilities, talent and partners in 
˜nancial technology (FinTech) to deliver 

a value proposition in the U.S. in fourth 
quarter 2016.
Operating approximately 3,000 branches
2 in more than 100 top cities worldwide, 
GCB generated $9.8 billion in pretax 
earnings, representing 43 percent of 

Citicorp™s total. In 2015, the business held 
$301 billion in deposits, had $391 billion in 
average assets and included $281.3 billion 

in average loans.
Credit Cards
Citi is the world™s largest credit card 

issuer, with more than 138 million 
accounts, $363.9 billion in annual 
purchase sales and $133.2 billion in 

average receivables across Citi Branded 
Cards and Citi Retail Services. 
Citi Branded Cards
Citi Branded Cards provides payment 
and credit solutions to consumers and 
small businesses, with more than 48.2 

million accounts globally. In 2015, the 
business generated annual purchase 
sales of $283.9 billion and had an 

average loan portfolio of $89.7 billion.
In 2015, Citi Branded Cards continued 
to simplify and standardize its global 

product portfolio, further reducing 
the number of product variations by 
61 percent and rolling out common 

global product platforms that increase 
product competitiveness while allowing 
for local customization. We introduced 
1 This includes Citi Retail Services customers.
2 This does not include approximately 400 Banco de Chile branches, which are part of a joint venture between 
Citi and Banco de Chile.
6Citi Simplicity
®, a card designed for 
value-focused customers, in Poland and 
Russia, and Citi Prestige
®, geared to 
af˚uent customers, in the Philippines, 

Taiwan, Thailand and the United Arab 
Emirates. Citi Prestige now is available 

in a total of 13 markets representing the 
majority of our retail banking wealth 
management customer base. 
Citi continues to harness the power of 
its scale and network to create value for 
partners and customers. We announced 

a new, expanded global agreement with 
MasterCard to speed delivery of payment 
solutions for customers and drive future 

payment innovation. Building on our 
industry-leading rewards capabilities, Citi 
created a single powerful global rewards 

platform and website that provide access 
for customers to redeem rewards from 
more than 20 global points transfer 

partners. The program is available in 
Australia, Bahrain, Colombia, Hong Kong, 
the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand 

and the U.S., and new relationships with 
Qantas Airways and Virgin America will 
empower customers with even more 

ways to use rewards.
In the U.S., Citi continued to enhance its 
proprietary and co-brand portfolio with 

world-class products and rewards. Costco, 
one of the largest and most respected 
retailers, selected Citi to become the 

exclusive issuer of Costco co-brand credit 
cards. Citi expanded opportunities to earn 
rewards faster for everyday purchases 

made with the ThankYou
® Premier card, 
including gas, parking, tolls and public 
Citi Bike
In 2015, Citi Bike
® riders in New York took 
a record 10 million trips, a 23 percent 
increase over 2014. The multi-year, 
Citi-funded expansion of the program 

by its operator proceeded on schedule 
with the introduction of stations in new 
neighborhoods in Manhattan, Brooklyn 

and Queens and a 25 percent increase in 
bikes on the street (to 7,500). Through 
Citi 
Bike for Good
, Citi supported three of New 

York City™s most impactful not-for-pro˜t 

organizations: the American Red Cross, 
No Kid Hungry® and the YMCA of Greater 
New York. The initiative put hundreds of 

specially branded bicycles on the streets, 
and through it, Citi contributed $50,000 

to each of the organizations. Citi Bike 
programs also launched in Jersey City, New 
Jersey, and continued to grow in Miami.
transportation, and also increased 
the value of ThankYou Points when 
redeeming for travel. 
Through relationships with legendary 
artists and bands, Citi™s award-winning 
entertainment access program 
 
Citi Private Pass
® offered unmatched 
access and VIP experiences to Citi 
customers in the U.S. In addition, 
 Citi expanded its entertainment 

marketing offers globally to more 
 than 10 countries, including Australia, 
China and the United Kingdom. 
 
In the U.S., Citi announced the 
Citi Concert Series on TODAY
, a multi-year 
sponsorship with NBC that provides 

year-round opportunities for millions 
of Citi customers to enjoy watching live 
performances from some of the biggest 

names in music. 
Wherever and whenever customers 
choose to make purchases Š in store, 

online or on their mobile devices Š Citi 
offers seamless, convenient and fast 
payment solutions. Citi worked with 

Android Pay, Apple Pay and Samsung 
Pay to make mobile payment solutions 
available to U.S. Citi customers and 

teamed with MasterCard to expand 
global acceptance of the Citi MasterPass 
digital wallet. 
Retail Services
Citi Retail Services is one of North 
America™s largest providers of private 

label and co-brand credit cards for 
retailers. In addition, the business 
delivers multi-channel retailing 
expertise, advanced data analytics and 

digital solutions to help premier retailers 
across an array of industries grow their 
businesses. We serve 90 million accounts 

for iconic brands such as Best Buy, 
ExxonMobil, Macy™s, Sears, Shell and 
 The Home Depot.
In 2015, Citi Retail Services renewed 
six relationships and signed new 
agreements with America™s oldest 

clothing retailer Brooks Brothers and 
convenience store retailer Wawa. 
We converted the Macy™s credit card 

portfolio to Citi™s systems, providing 
enhanced ef˜ciency and effectiveness 
while facilitating advanced analytics 

to support sales growth. We also 
completed the ˜rst phase of a multi-
year digital transformation initiative 

to build a single modular credit card 
marketing and servicing framework 
supporting the digital and mobile needs 

of our partners and their customers. 
Experts say the framework is the 
most advanced and ˚exible mass 

customization structure in the retail 
private label credit card market.
The business, which marked three 
decades of industry leadership this year, 
earned several notable awards, including 
the Institute of Risk Management™s 

Global Risk Award and an American 
Business Award for Innovation of 
the Year for its Field Sales Team 

Enhancement project. 
In 2015, Citi Retail Services saw purchase 
sales of $80 billion and an average loan 

portfolio totaling $43 billion.
7Delivering the Citigold 
Promise in Manhattan
By leveraging innovative technologies 
and unlocking the power of relationship 
banking, the opening of the Citigold Client 
Center at 5th Avenue and 52nd Street in 

Manhattan marks the opening of a new 
chapter in how Citi serves clients. It is the 
˜rst Citigold Client Center in the U.S. and 
is the physical embodiment of the Citigold 

value proposition. Citi pioneered this 
model in Asia with great success and is 
 bringing it to the U.S. with substantial 
physical investments.
New technology solutions at the branch 
enable our bankers and advisors to 

meet clients™ current needs as well as 
Smart Banking branches in high-impact 

locations in fast-growing cities around 
the world, including Dubai, Jakarta, Los 
Angeles, Moscow, New York and Quezon 

City. Smart Banking continues to drive 
growth in client acquisition, improved 
satisfaction, and increases in speed 
 
of in-branch servicing, sales and 
 brand recognition.
Always looking for innovative ways 
to improve all aspects of the client 
experience, Citi continues to test and 
enhance digital features. In 2015, Citi 

Handlowy was the ˜rst bank in Poland 
to introduce multi-currency ATMs. Citi 
introduced Touch ID to its U.S. mobile 

banking app for iPhone, allowing 
customers to log in with a mere touch to 
access a suite of new features, including 

easier mobile bill pay and check deposit. 
At the Citi Innovation Lab in New 
York, Citi initiated testing of a screen-

less, cardless ATM that uses iris-scan 
Global Consumer 
Banking
Retail Banking
Citibank meets the full range of 
consumer banking needs, including 
checking and savings accounts, loans, 

wealth management advice and small 
business services. Our Smart Banking 
branch design and experience, tailored 

offerings and world-class service 
continue to set us apart from peers.
Through Citigold
® and Citigold Private 
Client, Citi provides industry-leading, 
personalized wealth management services 
and a host of top-tier bene˜ts to clients 

around the globe. In 2015, Citi opened 
its ˜rst Citigold Client Centers in the U.S. 
and Colombia, replicating the successful 

model in place throughout Asia. After its 
successful introduction in Latin America 
and EMEA last year, Citi Priority, a unique 

value proposition designed to meet the 
needs of the emerging af˚uent, launched 
in Hong Kong.
To provide Citi™s global ˜nancial advisors 
with premier business and executive 
training, Citi joined with The Wharton 

School of the University of Pennsylvania 
to form the Citi
® Wharton
® Global Wealth 
Institute. Part of a three-year executive 

education initiative, the new institute will 
bene˜t the Citigold, Citigold Private Client 

and Banamex global advisory network.
As Citi expands and enhances its digital 
capabilities, we also continued to re˜ne 

our physical footprint, concentrating 
ﬁ The bank has begun a rollout of a futuristic 
‚smart branch™ model in Manhattan that 
jettisons the usual branch features in favor 
 
of digital services that are more in keeping 

with the atmosphere of an Apple Store.ﬂ
Š  The New York Times
, November 13, 2015
biometric technology for authentication 
and would enable customers to conduct 
transactions on their smartphones 
before visiting the ATM. 
Across the U.S., Citi continues to 
support the growth of small businesses. 
After lending $9.2 billion to U.S. small 

businesses in 2014, more than double 
that of 2009, Citi increased lending even 
more in 2015. Over $10 billion in loans 

were originated in 2015, raising the total 
amount of U.S. small business lending 
over the past ˜ve years to $46 billion.
The Mortgage business, which provides 
loans for home purchase and re˜nance 
transactions in the U.S., originated $29.5 

billion in new loans in 2015. The business 
continued to focus on client relationships 
by targeting originations within 

Citibank™s U.S. retail bank footprint, 
leveraging digital channels, and 
implementing an enhanced ful˜llment 
8process to reduce cycle times and 
improve the client experience. As part of 
its ongoing commitment to foreclosure 
prevention, CitiMortgage conducted its 

˜fth consecutive Road to Recovery Tour, 
a series of events offering in-person 
meetings for clients whose ˜nancial 

dif˜culties affect their ability to make 
mortgage payments.
Commercial Banking
Citi Commercial Banking provides global 
banking capabilities and services to 
mid-sized, trade-oriented companies in 

more than 100 cities worldwide. As many 
of these clients expand internationally, 
Citi helps enable their growth and 

ability to access capital across multiple 
countries. In 2015, lending turnaround 
time improved signi˜cantly and client 
satisfaction reached an all-time high. 
 Citi also became the ˜rst large 
bank awarded Preferred Lender 

Program status by the Small Business 
Administration for the Export Working 
Capital Program, geared toward 

borrowers that are exporting goods 
 and services and creating U.S. jobs.
proactively identify and deliver the 

solutions that will ˜t their lives for 
the future. Our Citigold Relationship 

Associates are at the forefront of 
delivering this differentiated experience 
to our clients in an advisory relationship. 

This location boasts one of our ˜nest 
branch teams Š equipped with tablets, 
new online terminals and Citi™s ˜rst 
teller cash recycler in the U.S. Š to help 
customers conduct a wide range of 
transactions digitally and seamlessly. 
Upstairs, the Citigold lounge provides 
clients with meeting space, free access 
to Wi-Fi and use of tablets. Whether 

there to take care of business needs, 
hold an international video conference 
or just relax during a busy day, this has 

become a sought-after destination for 
clients from New York, elsewhere in the 

U.S. and around the world.
At more than 300 Citi Smart Banking branches around the world, Citi offers state-of-the-art technology and more engaging customer experiences.
9Ł  The Banker
 named Citi Best Global 
Transaction Bank, recognizing our 
unparalleled global connectivity and 
the value we are creating through the 

execution of a client-focused strategy. 
Noting that ﬁCiti stands at the forefront 
Our geographic breadth and product 
depth help provide institutional investors 
access to global and local markets. Over 
the past two centuries, Citi has ˜nanced 

some of the world™s most transformative 
projects, and every day Š through 
lending, cash management, advisory 

services and much more Š we continue 
to support innovation and growth around 
the globe.
With trading ˚oors in more than 
80 countries, clearing and custody 
networks in over 60 countries and 

connections with 400 clearing systems, 
Citi maintains one of the largest global 
˜nancial infrastructures and facilitates, 

on average, over $3 trillion of ˚ows 
daily. This is what enables Citi to serve 
its core clients with distinction.
Capital Markets Origination
Citi™s Capital Markets Origination 
business is focused on the capital-raising 

needs of our institutional clients, from 
inaugural issuances and exchanges to 
cross-border transactions and ˜rst-of-

their-kind landmark structures. Owing 
to our unmatched global footprint and 
diverse range of ˜nancial products, Citi 

aims to be the ˜rst choice among issuers 
for clients™ underwriting needs. Citi™s 
track record of successfully executing 

in both buoyant and challenging 
market conditions is a testament to our 
unwavering commitment to provide the 

highest quality service to clients. Citi™s 
structuring and execution expertise has 
established the ˜rm as a leader in the 

equity capital markets, whether measured 
by innovation or proceeds raised, and has 
distinguished Citi as the clear choice for 

debt underwriting, with excellence across 
a broad range of currencies and markets.
In 2015, Citi was underwriter for several 
landmark transactions, including joint 
bookrunner on First Data Corporation™s 
$2.8 billion initial public offering; 

joint bookrunner, underwriter and 
mandated lead arranger on a $34 billion 
acquisition ˜nancing package for Teva 

Pharmaceutical Industries, the second 
largest loan globally in 2015; and lead 
dealer manager for General Electric 

Company on a $36 billion debt exchange 
offer, the largest corporate debt 
exchange in history.
Corporate and Investment Banking
Citi™s Corporate and Investment Banking 
franchises provide comprehensive 

relationship coverage service to 
ensure the best possible service and 
responsiveness to clients. With its strong 

presence in many nations, Citi uses 
country, sector and product expertise to 
deliver our global capabilities to clients 

wherever they choose to compete.
Citi™s Corporate and Investment Banking 
client teams are organized by industry 

and by country. Each team is composed 
of two parts: Strategic Coverage Of˜cers 
focus on mergers and acquisitions and 

equity and related ˜nancing solutions, 
while Corporate Bankers Š in partnership 
with Citi™s Capital Markets specialists 

and with support from the Global 
Subsidiaries Group Š deliver corporate 
banking and ˜nance services to global, 

regional and local clients.
In 2015, Citi played an integral 
role on several transformational 

transactions, including sole ˜nancial 
advisor to Danaher Corporation on its 
agreement to acquire Pall Corporation 

for approximately $13.8 billion; and 
Institutional 
 Clients Group
Through Citi™s 
network of more 

than 100 countries, 

Citi™s Institutional 

Clients Group 

helps multinational 

companies grow, hire, 

and deliver products 

and services. Citi also 

provides ˜nancing 

and support to 

governments at all 

levels to help them not 

only conduct day-to-

day operations but also 

to build sustainable 

infrastructure, housing, 

transportation, schools 

and other vital public 

works for the future. 
of transaction banking,ﬂ 
The Banker
 called out Citi™s focus in three major 
areas: improving client experience, 
innovation and digitization and 

investing in new technologies such as 
cybersecurity and digital money, which 
have helped Citi to create true client 

partnerships, moving away from a 
product push to a solution consultation. 
Ł  Recognizing Citi™s efforts to become 
a simpler, smaller, safer and stronger 
bank while maintaining a truly global 
presence, 
Euromoney
 named Citi 
the Best Global Bank, Best Global 
Emerging Market Investment Bank 
and Top Bank in Foreign Exchange in 

2015. 
Euromoney
 noted that, ﬁCiti is a 
much-changed, smaller, more focused 
2015 Highlights
10institution. But it still has a truly 
global presence, in both consumer and 
wholesale banking, which competitors 
will struggle to replicateﬂ and that 

ﬁCiti™s management has taken many of 
the necessary steps to ensure that a 
global universal banking model works. 

Our belief is that its clients and its 
shareholders will increasingly see the 
bene˜ts of its unique global franchise.ﬂ
advisor to GE Capital on the sale of 

its U.S. Sponsor Finance business to 

Canada Pension Plan Investment Board 
for more than $11 billion, the sale of 
its Healthcare Financial Services U.S. 
Ł  Global Finance
 named Citi Best 
Overall Global Digital Bank, which 
recognized our continued success in 
the execution of our digital strategy, 

which is characterized by innovation 
and client experience and evidenced 
by our award-winning transaction 

services channels: CitiDirect BE
® and CitiConnect
®. Citi was also included 
in Global Finance™s
 The Innovators 
lending business to Capital One for 

approximately $9 billion, the sale of its 
European Acquisition Finance business 
Š representing aggregate ending net 

investment (ENI) of approximately 
$2.2 billion Š to Sumitomo Mitsui 

Banking Corporation, and the sale 

of its equipment lending and leasing 
business in Mexico (representing ENI 
of approximately $1.1 billion) to Linzor 
Citi was the lead investor in the Turner Multifamily Impact Fund to help address the growing shortage of affordable rental housing in the U.S. 
 Citi also invested in the Turner-Agassi Charter School Facilities Fund II, which promotes the success and growth of best-in-class charter schools.
Citi Community Capital 
closed a ˜nancing deal 
for the New England 
Center and Home for 
Veterans to support 

the modernization and 
expansion of housing 
options for homeless 

veterans in Boston.
Citi was global coordinator 
for a USD$3 billion initial 

˜nancing to construct 
Mexico City™s new 
international airport. The 

Citi-led transaction is one 
of the largest emerging 
markets privately ˜nanced 

infrastructure ˜nancings.
Con Edison Development, Inc., 
a subsidiary of Consolidated 

Edison, Inc., developed CED 
Alamo 5, a 95-megawatt 
solar energy project located 

82 miles southwest of San 
Antonio, Texas. Citi was lead 
placement agent in arranging 

a $159 million senior notes 
offering for the project, the 
largest solar facility in the 

state of Texas and the ˜rst in 
the U.S. to employ dual-axis 
tracking technology. 
Citi, acting as sole structuring 
agent, lead bookrunner and 

global coordinator, priced 
LATAM Airlines Group™s 
inaugural 2015-1 Enhanced 

Equipment Trust Certi˜cate 
(EETC) transaction, making 
it the ˜rst EETC issued by a 

Latin American airline.
2015 listing of global ˜rms that are 
engendering innovation in treasury and 
transaction processing. Citi™s Treasury 
and Trade Solutions business was also 

named Global Trade Review™s
 Best 
Global Trade Finance Banks and Best 
Global Supply Chain Finance Bank.
11Ł  As a testament to Citi™s commitment 
to provide clients with a consistent, 
full-service product offering in more 
than 100 countries, 
International 

Financing Review (IFR)
 named Citi the 
top Global Emerging Markets Bond 
capital markets intelligence and services 
across all product lines. Through web, 
mobile and trading applications, clients 
can ˜nd Citi research, commentary, 

and proprietary data and analytics; 
execute fast, seamless and stable foreign 
exchange and rates trades; and utilize 

Citi™s suite of sophisticated, post-trade 
analysis tools. 
Private Banking
Citi operates one of the world™s leading 
global private banks, whose teamwork, 
commitment to service, and ability to 

see and seize opportunities for clients 
set it apart. Our 800 private bankers and 
product specialists, located in 51 of˜ces 

in 16 countries, act as trusted advisors to 
many of the world™s most successful and 
in˚uential individuals and families.
Citi™s comprehensive services are 
tailored to individuals and families, 
including entrepreneurs and business 

owners, single- and multi-family of˜ces, 
senior corporate executives, next-
generation/inherited wealth, law ˜rms 

and attorneys. Through banking and 
cash management to lending, investment 
strategies, and trust and wealth advisory 

services, Citi™s goal is to deliver expertise 
and a premier level of service while 
helping grow, manage and preserve 

wealth. As Citi partners with clients, it 
can provide global thinking informed by 
deep local insight and can help deliver 

the complete ˜nancial management 
strategies that today™s wealth requires.
Treasury and Trade Solutions
Citi™s Treasury and Trade Solutions 
(TTS) business provides integrated 
cash management and trade ˜nance 

services to multinational corporations, 
Institutional 
 Clients Group
Capital Partners. Citi also served as a 
˜nancial advisor to Baxter International 
on the spin-off of its $20 billion 
biopharmaceuticals business, Baxalta. 

The spin-off created two separate 
global health care companies: Baxter, 
which will focus on lifesaving medical 

products; and Baxalta, which will focus 
on developing and marketing innovative 
biopharmaceuticals.
Markets and Securities Services
Citi™s Markets and Securities Services 
business provides world-class ˜nancial 

products and services as diverse as the 
needs of the thousands of corporations, 
institutions, governments and investors 

that Citi serves. Citi works to enrich the 
relationships, products and technology 
that de˜ne its market-making presence. 

The breadth, depth and strength of 
Citi™s sales and trading, distribution 
and research capabilities span a broad 

range of asset classes, currencies, 
sectors and products, including equities, 
commodities, credit, futures, foreign 

exchange (FX), emerging markets, 
G10 rates, municipals, prime ˜nance 
and securitized markets. Our Investor 

Services and Direct Custody and Clearing 
businesses provide customized solutions 
that support the diverse investment and 

transaction strategies of investors and 
intermediaries worldwide.
The Citi Velocity
SM platform delivers 
electronic access to Citi™s global 
footprint and real-time information, 
giving clients unprecedented access to 
House and Global Loan House. 
IFR and 
Risk Magazine both named Citi the top 
Global Derivatives House and Global 

Credit Derivatives House. 
IFR cited 
Citi for ﬁtaking advantage of being 
ahead of the curve, and cementing 

its position as a global full-service 
providerﬂ amid increasing regulatory 
pressures that are causing banks 
to restructure their businesses. 
IFR also noted Citi™s ﬁsolid shapeﬂ and 

ﬁsuperior capital positionﬂ as new 

regulations kicked in during 2015.
Ł  Following a steady improvement in 

performance over the past several 
years, Citi secured Greenwich 
Associates™ #1 ranking in Global Fixed 
2015 Highlights
˜nancial institutions and public sector 

organizations across the globe. With the 
industry™s most comprehensive suite 
of digital-enabled platforms, tools and 

analytics, TTS leads the way in delivering 
innovative and tailored solutions to our 
clients. Offerings include payments, 

receivables, liquidity management and 
investment services, working capital 
solutions, commercial card programs and 

trade ˜nance. 
Based on the belief that client 
experience is the driver of sustainable 

differentiation, TTS has focused its 
efforts on transforming its business to 
deliver a seamless, end-to-end client 

experience through the development 
of its capabilities, client advocacy, 
network management and service 

delivery across the entire organization. 
New client mandates cemented 
Citi™s position as leading provider for 

multinational corporations seeking 
full-scale regional cash management 
solutions across regions and globally. 

Shell appointed Citi TTS as its sole 
bank provider for cash management 
services across 16 countries in Europe. 

Samsung Electronics selected Citi to 
implement a global renminbi (RMB) 
netting solution, conducting the world™s 

˜rst intercompany cross-border netting 
transaction using RMB.
Following the successful launch of the 
same service in the U.S., Citi
® Payment 
Exchange was introduced in Canada. 
Payment Exchange is an integrated and 
highly ˚exible institutional payment-

processing solution used in making 
payments to suppliers and third parties. 
12Income Market Share, following a 
survey that polled 4,000 ˜xed 
 income investors around the world. 
According to the survey, Citi increased 
its ˜xed income market share by 60 
basis points to 10.2 percent in 2015 
and now holds a signi˜cant lead over 

the next closest competitors. Citi has 
In strong validation of the strength of 

its value proposition, CitiDirect BE
® and CitiConnect
®, TTS™ digital banking 
channels that support over half a million 
active users in 26 languages, were 
recognized with industry awards. These 

included the 2015 Celent Model Bank 
award for innovation, effective use of 

technology and integration excellence 
for the CitiConnect ERP Integrator and 
the prestigious Best Mobile Service 

or App for Enterprise by Mobile World 
Congress for CitiDirect BE Mobile. Citi 

was the ˜rst bank to win in a category 
dominated by FinTechs.
also gained more market share than 
any other large dealer since 2008 

and ranked #1 in both Sales Quality 
and Trading Quality, as well as #1 in 
e-Trading, according to the survey.
Ł  PWM/The Banker
 named Citi Best 
Private Bank for Customer Service, 
an accolade that demonstrated Citi™s 
Citi, as joint structuring agent and joint lead bookrunner, successfully priced Turkish Airlines™ $328.3 million inaugural Class A Enhanced Equipment 
Trust Certi˜cate transaction. 
Citi placed the last 
tranche of an aggregate 
of $1.325 billion in senior 
notes for Berkshire 
Hathaway Energy™s Solar 

Star solar energy project. 
Upon completion, the 
 579-megawatt Solar 
Star project became the 
largest solar energy plant 
in the world, supplying 

renewable power to 
approximately 250,000 
homes in Los Angeles.
In Turkey, Citi acted as 
joint ˜nancial advisor and 

joint hedge coordinator to 
Ankara Etlik Hastane Saglik 
Hizmetleri Isletme Yatrim 

A.S. (Etlik), a public-private 
partnership to be developed 
by private sector companies 

Astaldi SpA, Astaldi 
Concessioni SpA, Turkerler 
Construction and Turkerler 

Holding. Etlik will be one of 
the world™s largest health 
care complexes. 
BOC Aviation closed the sale 
of a portfolio of 24 aircraft 

via its inaugural asset-backed 
security (ABS) transaction, 
Shenton Aircraft Investment 

1 Ltd., with Citi acting as 
sole structuring agent, sole 
equity placement agent, 

global coordinator and left 
lead bookrunner. This deal 
represents the ˜rst aircraft 

ABS for an Asian-based lessor. 
In Peru, Citi was sole ratings 
advisor and joint global 

coordinator and bookrunner 
to the Lima Metro Line 2 
consortium in its inaugural 

$1.15 billion 144A/Reg S 
offering. The proceeds of the 
bond offering will be used 

to ˜nance the construction 
of Line 2 of the Lima Metro 
subway system. 
continued commitment to helping our 
clients build, protect and preserve their 
wealth legacy through tailored advice. 
Family Wealth Report also recognized 

Citi as having the Best Private Client 
Investment Platform.
13Sustainable Progress: 
$100 Billion Environmental 
Finance Goal
Business activity, such as renewable 
energy banking and ˜nance and 
commodity hedging, counts toward 
our $100 billion environmental ˜nance 
We remain committed to deploying the 
resources of Citi and the Citi Foundation 
to catalyze innovative solutions and 

positive measurable outcomes. Issues 
core to Citi™s citizenship efforts include:
Sustainable Progress
Citi continues to advance our goal to 
lend, facilitate and invest $100 billion 
in environmental and climate change 

solutions over the next 10 years. In 
2015, we increased our momentum 
toward meeting this goal and engaged 

in a record number of transactions with 
our clients. These new efforts build on 
a previous goal made in 2007 to direct 

$50 billion to climate-friendly projects 
over 10 years, which we met three years 
early in 2013. 
These efforts are part of our 
Sustainable Progress strategy that 
includes environmental and social risk 

management and sustainability goals for 
Citi™s own businesses and operations.
Citi has established new environmental 
footprint goals for 2020, including 
 35 percent reduction in greenhouse gas 

(GHG) emissions, 30 percent reduction 

in energy and water use, and 60 percent 
reduction in waste, all against a 2005 
baseline. We also used a science-based 

approach to set a longer-term 2050 
GHG emissions reduction goal of 80 
percent and plan to seek LEED Platinum 

certi˜cation for our global headquarters 
at 388 Greenwich Street in New York City.
Environmental and social risk 
management remains a key priority and 
policy, and standards will continually 
evolve in response to emerging risks and 

new product development.
Citi for Cities 
Around the world, local governments 
are looking for partners to address 

entrenched challenges to urban 
progress and help them provide tools 
and solutions to connect citizens to 

services. Through supporting modern 
infrastructure, stimulating local 
economies, enabling public services 

to run smoothly and ef˜ciently, and 
supporting residents to attain ˜nancial 
success, Citi is working to build 

economically vibrant and inclusive cities 
and communities.
Citi increased small business lending in 
the U.S. to more than $10 billion in 2015, 
raising lending over the last four years 
to nearly $38 billion. We ˜nanced more 

affordable housing than ever, providing 
$4.8 billion in ˜nancing in 2015.
We are in our second year of our three-
year, $50 million 
Pathways to Progress
 initiative to provide 100,000 low-income 
young people with opportunities to 

develop workplace and leadership skills 
critical to competing in a 21
st century 
economy. With the active support of 

more than 1,000 Citi volunteers to date, 
70,000 young people across 10 U.S. 

cities already have bene˜ted from the 
program. In 2015, 
Pathways to Progress
 expanded globally with the launch of 
new research connecting the future 
competitiveness of 35 global cities and 
investments made to help youth foster 

the skills and networks needed 
 to succeed.
Citi continues to expand Cities for 
Citizenship, a program originally 
launched in 2014 with the mayors of 
Chicago, Los Angeles and New York 
Citizenship
Citi is focused on 
enabling progress 

in the communities 

in which we work 

and live. Together 

with companies, 

governments and 

institutions of all 

shapes, sizes, scale and 

scope, we lend, facilitate 

and invest in products 

and services that power 

the global economy. 

We also recognize 

that we can play an 

important role in 

working with others to 

address key social and 

economic challenges 

facing clients and 

communities.
goal to lend, facilitate and invest $100 
billion toward activities that reduce the 
impacts of climate change and create 
environmental solutions that bene˜t 
people and communities.
In 2015, Citi provided construction 
˜nancing, tax equity and the commodity 
hedge to af˜liates of Alterra Power 

Corp. and Starwood Energy Group 
14Global, LLC to ˜nance the Shannon Wind 
Project (wind turbine pictured left), a 
204-megawatt wind facility located in 
 Clay County, Texas.
Citi and other banks provided the 
 $287 million construction loan facility 
 for the project, which consists of a 
 
$212 million loan and $75 million in 
various letters of credit. Subsidiaries 
 of Citi and BHE Renewables provided 
that empowers immigrants eligible for 
citizenship with access to ˜nancial and 

legal assistance in 20 U.S. cities. The 
program now includes 20 members and 
has assisted more than 6,000 individuals 

nationwide in their pursuit of citizenship.
Globally, our partnership with the 
U.S. government™s Overseas Private 

Investment Corporation has resulted 
in over $400 million in ˜nancing to 
44 micro˜nance institutions in 25 
countries, reaching more than 1.2 

million entrepreneurs, 92 percent 
 of whom are women.
Talent and Diversity
As a global bank, Citi needs a workforce 
as diverse as the clients and communities 
we serve. A diverse workforce stimulates 

new ideas and fresh ways of thinking and 
fosters the skills needed to be successful 
in a dynamic business environment. 
 It also helps us attract the best talent 
 in the industry.
We are proud of our culture of inclusion 
and collaboration. Citi earned a perfect 

score on the Human Rights Campaign 
Foundation™s Corporate Equality Index 
for the 12th year in a row. 
To learn more about Citizenship at Citi, 
visit http://citizenship.citigroup.com.
$219 million of tax equity ˜nancing for 
the project, proceeds of which were 
 used primarily to retire the project™s 
$287 million construction loan facility. 
Under a long-term power purchase 
agreement between Citi and Facebook, 
the project will provide 100 percent of 

the power for the foreseeable future for 
Facebook™s newest data center in Fort 
Worth, Texas.
Citi has been named to the Dow Jones 
Sustainability and FTSE4Good indices, 
which have tracked globally recognized 
corporate responsibility standards 
every year since 2001 and 2002, 
respectively. Citi is included in the 
leadership indices for disclosure and 
climate performance in the 
CDP Global 
Climate Change Report 2015
.Pathways to Progress
 in action: With guidance from iMentor and a Citi employee volunteer, Nancy D™Haiti successfully navigated the college 
application process and is pursuing her degree in business. To see Nancy™s story, visit https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ygmbdis-1w4.
15˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˙
ˇ
˜˚˛˝†
˙ˆˇ˘˙
˙˙

˙˙

˙


⁄›

’
˜˚˛˝
…ˆ—›šˆ„
˛
›ˆ
˛ˆ†
”‚˛˝˙
“
citi.com/progress
˜˚˛˝
˙˝
˙˝˘˛˝˙
ˆ˙˚˚˙˚ˆ˝˙
ˆ˚ˆš˝ˆ˙
˚ˇ˝˙˛˝ˆˆ˝˛˙ˇ˚˙

ˆ
•˚˛˙˚˝˘˛
˙˝
ELECTRICITY
 IS POWERING
 PROGRESS.
‡“…˙‘ˆ˘€˙—š˙‘ˆ˙˘˙‘ˆˆˇ˙š˛˙–˝†˙˘˛˝˙˛˝†ˆ˝˛˝˝˛˝˘˛€˙˚˙‘ˆ†˛˚ˇ˝˙ƒ˚˛˙‘ˆ˙˘˝˛˝˘˛€˙˚˙‘ˆ†˛˚˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆˇUNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWASHINGTON, D.C. 20549FORM 10-KANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015Commission file number 1-9924Citigroup Inc.(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)Delaware (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)52-1568099 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY (Address of principal executive offices)10013 (Zip code)(212) 559-1000 (Registrant™s telephone number, including area code)Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: See Exhibit 99.01Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: noneIndicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
 Yes
  No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
  No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes
  No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any
, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months 
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes
  No Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained 
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant™s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer
, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting 
company. See the definitions of ﬁlarge accelerated filer,ﬂ ﬁaccelerated filerﬂ and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes
  No The aggregate market value of Citigroup Inc. common stock held by non-affiliates of Citigroup Inc. on June 30, 2015 was approximately $166.1 billion.Number of shares of Citigroup Inc. common stock outstanding on January 31, 2016: 2,948,120,153Documents Incorporated by Reference: Portions of the registrant™s proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to be held on April 26, 2016, are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III.Available on the web at www.citigroup.com
21.Business
 ........................4Œ30, 119Œ122,125, 151,
305Œ3061A.Risk Factors
 ..................... 53Œ621B.Unresolved Staff Comments .........Not Applicable2.Properties
 .......................3063.Legal ProceedingsŠSee Note 28  
to the Consolidated  Financial Statements ..............282Œ2924.Mine Safety Disclosures
 ............Not Applicable5.Market for Registrant™s Common  
Equity, Related Stockholder Matters,  

and Issuer Purchases of Equity  
Securities ....................... 134, 
 156-157  307-3086.Selected Financial Data
 ............10-117.Management™s Discussion and  
Analysis of Financial Condition and  
Results of Operations ..............6Œ32, 64-1187A.Quantitative and Qualitative 
Disclosures About Market Risk
 ...... 64-118
, 152-154, 179-216, 222-2758.Financial Statements and 
Supplementary Data
 ...............130-3049.Changes in and Disagreements with 
Accountants on Accounting and 
Financial Disclosure
 ...............Not Applicable9A.Controls and Procedures
 ...........123-1249B.Other Information
 .................Not Applicable10.Directors, Executive Officers and 
Corporate Governance
 .............309-31011.Executive Compensation
 ...........**12.Security Ownership of Certain 
Beneficial Owners and Management 
and Related Stockholder Matters ....***13.Certain Relationships and Related 
Transactions and Director 

Independence ....................****14.Principal Accountant Fees and 
Services ........................*****15.Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 ˜˙




˙


˜˜˙
‰ˆ


˜˜˜˙˙
˙


˜˜˜˜˙‰



˜˜˜˜˜˙•ˆ˙

346
6
10
121415
16North America GCB18Latin America GCB20Asia GCB22
24
282931323353
6364119123

124125
126
127
129130137304305309Citigroup Executive Officers309Citigroup Board of Directors3094Citigroup™s history dates back to the founding of the City Bank of New York in 1812.Citigroup is a global diversified financial services holding company, whose 
businesses provide consumers, corporations, governments and institutions 
with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer 
banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, 
trade and securities services and wealth management. Citi has approximately 
200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries 
and jurisdictions.At December 31, 2015, Citi had approximately 231,000 full-time employees, compared to approximately 241,000 full-time employees at 
December 31, 2014.Citigroup currently operates, for management reporting purposes, via two primary business segments: Citicorp, consisting of Citi™s 
Global Consumer 
Banking businesses and Institutional Clients Group; and Citi Holdings, 
consisting of businesses and portfolios of assets that Citigroup has determined 

are not central to its core Citicorp businesses. For a further description of the 
business segments and the products and services they provide, see ﬁCitigroup 
Segmentsﬂ below, ﬁManagement™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 

Condition and Results of Operationsﬂ and Note 3 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Throughout this report, ﬁCitigroup,ﬂ ﬁCitiﬂ and ﬁthe Companyﬂ refer to Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.Additional information about Citigroup is available on Citi™s website 
at www.citigroup.com. Citigroup™s recent annual reports on Form 10-K, 

quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, proxy statements, as well as other filings 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are available 
free of charge through Citi™s website by clicking on the ﬁInvestorsﬂ page and 

selecting ﬁAll SEC Filings.ﬂ The SEC™s website also contains current reports, 

information statements, and other information regarding Citi at www.sec.gov.
Certain reclassifications, including a realignment of certain businesses, have been made to the prior periods™ financial statements to conform to 
the current period™s presentation. For information on certain recent such 

reclassifications, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Please see ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ below for a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that could impact 
Citigroup™s businesses, financial condition and results of 

operations.5As described above, Citigroup is managed pursuant to the following segments:























The following are the four regions in which Citigroup operates. The regional results are fully reflected in the segment results above. 
˜˙
˙
Latin America GCB
−

˙˙
Asia GCB
EMEA GCB
“‹‘˙North America˙
Latin America
Asia
6Citi™s full year 2015 results of operations reflected a solid overall performance. As described in more detail throughout this Executive Summary, Citi™s full 
year 2015 net income of $17.1 billion was its highest since pre-financial 
crisis, when Citi was a very different company in terms of footprint, mix of 
businesses and assets. During the year, Citi was able to grow revenues by 
3% and make investments in its core Citicorp businesses while reducing 
its overall expenses, thus improving its overall efficiency ratio. Loan and 
deposit growth in Citicorp each grew by 5% while Citi™s overall balance sheet 
decreased by 3% (each excluding the impact of foreign currency translation 
into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes (FX translation)). Citi also ended 
2015 with a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio, on a fully implemented 
basis, of 12.1%.In addition to these accomplishments, Citi made significant progress on its execution priorities during 2015, including: Efficient resource allocation and disciplined expense management: As described above, Citi maintained disciplined expense management during 
2015, even as it continued to absorb increased regulatory and compliance 
costs in Citicorp and made ongoing business investments. Citi™s expense 
management during 2015 was further aided by lower legal and related 
expenses and lower repositioning expenses in Citicorp as compared to the 
prior year, as discussed further below.  Continued wind down of Citi Holdings, while maintaining profitability: 
Citi significantly reduced the assets in Citi Holdings during the year. Citi 
Holdings™ assets decreased $55 billion, or 43%, from 2014, ending the year 
at $74 billion. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, Citi had executed 
agreements to further reduce Citi Holdings GAAP assets by approximately 
$7 billion in 2016 (for additional information, see ﬁCiti Holdingsﬂ below). 
As discussed further below, Citi Holdings also maintained profitability 
in 2015. Utilization of deferred tax assets (DTAs): Citi utilized approximately 
$1.5 billion in DTAs during 2015 (for additional information, see 
ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant EstimatesŠIncome 
Taxesﬂ below and Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).Citi was able to achieve these results and make ongoing progress on its execution priorities during a year with market volatility and uncertainties, 
including macroeconomic uncertainties, slower global growth and market 
volatility resulting from, among other things, lower commodity prices as well 
as uncertainty regarding the timing and pace of U.S. interest rate changes.As the year-to-date has shown, Citi expects the operating environment in 
2016 to remain challenging, with many of the uncertainties impacting its 
results of operations during 2015 continuing into 2016. For a more detailed 
discussion of the risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi™s businesses, results of operations and financial condition during 2016, see each respective 
business™ results of operations, ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ and ﬁManaging Global Riskﬂ 
below. While Citi may not be able to control all aspects of its operating 

environment in 2016, it intends to continue to build on the progress made 
during 2015 by remaining focused on its execution priorities and target 
client strategy.
Citigroup
Citigroup reported net income of $17.2 billion or $5.40 per share, compared 
to $7.3 billion or $2.20 per share in the prior year. Results in 2015 included 
$254 million ($162 million after-tax) of CVA/DVA, compared to negative 
$390 million (negative $240 million after-tax) in 2014. Citigroup full year 
2014 results also included a charge of $3.8 billion ($3.7 billion after-tax) 
to settle RMBS and CDO-related claims recorded in Citi Holdings and 
a tax charge of $210 million related to corporate tax reforms recorded 
in Corporate/Other.Excluding the impact of CVA/DVA in both periods as well as the impact 
of the mortgage settlement and the tax item in 2014, Citigroup reported 
net income of $17.1 billion in 2015, or $5.35 per share, compared to 
$11.5 billion, or $3.55 per share, in the prior year. (Citi™s results of operations 

excluding the impact of CVA/DVA as well as the impact of the mortgage 

settlement and the tax item in 2014 are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi 
believes the presentation of its results of operations excluding these impacts 
provides a more meaningful depiction for investors of the underlying 
fundamentals of its businesses.) The 49% increase from the prior year was 
primarily driven by lower expenses and lower net credit losses, partially offset 
by lower revenues and a reduced net loan loss reserve release.Citi™s revenues were $76.4 billion in 2015, a decrease of 1% from 
the prior year. Excluding CVA/DVA, revenues were $76.1 billion, down 

2% from the prior year, as Citicorp revenues decreased by 2% and Citi 

Holdings revenues decreased 1%. Excluding CVA/DVA and the impact 

of FX translation, Citigroup revenues increased 3% from the prior 
7year, driven by an increase of 3% in both Citicorp and Citi Holdings™ revenues. 
(Citi™s results of operations excluding the impact of FX translation are 

non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of its results 
of operations excluding the impact of FX translation provides a more 
meaningful depiction for investors of the underlying fundamentals of 
its businesses.)ExpensesCitigroup expenses decreased 21% versus the prior year to $43.6 billion. 
Excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement in the prior year, Citigroup 
expenses declined 15% driven by significantly lower legal and related 
expenses ($1.5 billion compared to $5.8 billion in the prior year) and 
repositioning costs ($472 million compared to $1.6 billion in the prior 
year), as well as the impact of FX translation (which lowered expenses by 
approximately $2.6 billion in 2015 compared to the prior year). Excluding 
the impact of both the mortgage settlement in the prior year and FX 
translation, Citigroup™s expenses declined 10%, mainly driven by the lower 
legal and related expenses and repositioning costs.Excluding the impact of FX translation, which lowered reported expenses by approximately $2.4 billion in 2015 compared to the prior year, Citicorp 

expenses decreased 9% also driven by significantly lower legal and related 
expenses and repositioning costs. Citicorp expenses in 2015 included legal 
and related expenses of $1.1 billion, compared to $4.8 billion in the prior 
year, and $278 million of repositioning costs, compared to $1.5 billion in the 

prior year.
Citi Holdings™ expenses were $4.6 billion, down 52% from the prior year. 
Excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement in the prior year, Citi 

Holdings™ expenses decreased 22%, primarily driven by the ongoing decline 
in Citi Holdings assets as well as lower legal and related expenses.Credit CostsCiti™s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims of $7.9 
billion increased 6% from the prior year. Excluding the impact of the 
mortgage settlement in the prior year, Citi™s total provisions for credit losses 
and for benefits and claims increased 7% as a lower net loan loss reserve 
release was partially offset by lower net credit losses.Net credit losses of $7.3 billion declined 19% versus the prior year. 
Consumer net credit losses declined 19% to $7.1 billion, mostly reflecting 
continued improvements in North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail 
services in Citicorp as well as the North America mortgage portfolio within 
Citi Holdings. Corporate net credit losses declined 19% to $234 million. 
As previously disclosed, corporate net credit losses in 2014 included approximately $165 million of net credit losses related to the Pemex supplier 
program in Mexico (for additional information, see ﬁInstitutional Clients Groupﬂ below). Excluding these net credit losses in the prior year, net credit 

losses increased by approximately $111 million, primarily related to a 
limited number of energy and energy-related corporate loans, predominantly 
incurred during the latter part of 2015 (for additional information, see 
ﬁInstitutional Clients Groupﬂ and ﬁCredit RiskŠCorporate Creditﬂ below).The net release of allowance for loan losses and unfunded lending commitments was $120 million in 2015, compared to a $2.4 billion release 
in 2014, excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement in the prior year. 

Citicorp™s net reserve build was $409 million, compared to a net loan loss 

reserve release of $1.4 billion in 2014. The build in 2015 was primarily driven 
by net loan loss reserve builds in Institutional Clients Group (ICG) during 
the latter part of 2015, including approximately $530 million for energy and 
energy-related exposures. Overall, Citi expects its credit costs in Citicorp will 
likely be higher in 2016 as compared to 2015 given that it believes the vast 
majority of its net loan loss reserve releases have occurred as credit quality 
has largely stabilized.Citi Holdings™ net reserve release, excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement in the prior year, decreased $443 million from the prior year 

to $529 million, primarily reflecting lower net releases related to the 
North America mortgage portfolio.For additional information on Citi™s consumer and corporate credit costs 
and allowance for loan losses, see ﬁCredit Riskﬂ below.
CapitalCiti continued to grow its regulatory capital during 2015, even as it returned 
approximately $5.9 billion of capital to its shareholders in the form of 
common stock repurchases and dividends. Citigroup™s Tier 1 Capital and 
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratios, on a fully implemented basis, were 
13.5% and 12.1% as of December 31, 2015, respectively, compared to 11.5% 
and 10.6% as of December 31, 2014 (all based on the Basel III Advanced 
Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets). Citigroup™s Supplementary 
Leverage ratio as of December 31, 2015, on a fully implemented basis, was 
7.1%, compared to 5.9% as of December 31, 2014. For additional information 
on Citi™s capital ratios and related components, including the impact of Citi™s 
DTAs on its capital ratios, see ﬁCapital Resourcesﬂ below.8CiticorpCiticorp net income increased 50% from the prior year to $16.2 billion. 
CVA/DVA, recorded in ICG, was $269 million ($172 million after-tax) in 
2015, compared to negative $343 million (negative $211 million after-tax) 
in the prior year (for a summary of CVA/DVA by business within ICG, see ﬁInstitutional Clients Groupﬂ below). Excluding CVA/DVA in both periods 
and the tax item in 2014, Citicorp™s net income was $16.0 billion, up 43% 
from the prior year, primarily driven by the lower expenses and net credit 
losses, partially offset by lower revenues and the net loan loss reserve builds.Citicorp revenues decreased 1% from the prior year to $68.5 billion. Excluding CVA/DVA, Citicorp revenues were $68.2 billion in 2015, down 2% 

from the prior year, reflecting largely unchanged revenues in 
ICG and a 
6% decrease in Global Consumer Banking (GCB) revenues. As referenced 
above, excluding CVA/DVA and the impact of FX translation, Citicorp™s
 
revenues grew 3%.GCB revenues of $33.9 billion decreased 6% versus the prior year. 
Excluding the impact of FX translation, GCB revenues decreased 1%, as 
decreases in North America GCB and Asia GCB were partially offset by an 
increase in Latin America GCB. North America GCB revenues decreased 
1% to $19.4 billion, as lower revenues in Citi-branded cards were partially 
offset by higher retail banking revenues. Citi-branded cards revenues of $7.8 
billion were down 6% versus the prior year, reflecting the continued impact 

of lower average loans as well as an increase in acquisition and rewards costs 
related to new account acquisitions, particularly during the second half of 
2015. Citi retail services revenues of $6.4 billion were largely unchanged 
versus the prior year, as the continued impact of lower fuel prices and higher 

contractual partner payments was offset by modest growth in average loans. 
Retail banking revenues increased 6% from the prior year to $5.2 billion, 
reflecting continued loan and deposit growth and improved deposit spreads. 
North America GCB average deposits of $172 billion increased 1% year-over-

year and average retail loans of $50 billion grew 7%. Average card loans of 

$107 billion decreased 2%, while purchase sales of $263 billion increased 4% 
versus the prior year. For additional information on the results of operations 

of North America GCB for 2015, see ﬁGlobal Consumer BankingŠ 
North America GCBﬂ below.
International GCB revenues (consisting of EMEA GCB, Latin America GCB and Asia GCB) decreased 12% versus the prior year to $14.4 billion. 
Excluding the impact of FX translation, international GCB revenues were unchanged versus the prior year. 
Latin America GCB revenues increased 3% 
versus the prior year, as increases in loan and deposit balances as well as the 
impact of business divestitures were partially offset by the continued impact 
of spread compression in cards. Asia GCB revenues declined 3% versus the 
prior year, reflecting
 lower investment sales revenues as well as continued 
high payment rates and the ongoing impact of regulatory changes in cards, 
partially offset by growth in lending, deposit and insurance products. For additional information on the results of operations of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB (which includes the results of operations of EMEA GCB for reporting purposes) for 2015, including the impact of FX translation, see ﬁGlobal Consumer Bankingﬂ below. Year-over-year, international 

GCB average deposits of $129 billion increased 5%, average retail loans 
of $99 billion increased 3%, investment sales of $78 billion decreased 8%, 
average card loans of $26 billion increased 2% and card purchase sales of 
$101 billion increased 6%, all excluding the impact of FX translation.ICG revenues were $33.7 billion in 2015, up 2% from the prior year. 
Excluding CVA/DVA, 
ICG revenues were largely unchanged from the prior year 
at $33.5 billion.Banking revenues of $16.9 billion, excluding CVA/DVA and the impact of 
mark-to-market gains on hedges related to accrual loans within corporate 
lending (see below), were largely unchanged compared to the prior year, 

as lower equity underwriting activity within investment banking as well 
as the impact of FX translation was offset by higher advisory revenues and 
continued growth in the private bank. Investment banking revenues of 
$4.5 billion decreased 3% versus the prior year. Advisory revenues increased 

16% to $1.1 billion with sustained wallet share gains for the year. Debt 

underwriting revenues increased 1% to $2.5 billion, driven by wallet share 
gains in investment grade debt and strong performance in investment 
grade loans in the second half of 2015, while equity underwriting revenues 
decreased 28% to $902 million, largely reflecting lower industry-wide 
underwriting activity during the year.
Private bank revenues, excluding CVA/DVA, increased 8% to $2.9 billion 
from the prior year, driven by higher loan and deposit balances as well as 

growth in managed investments revenue. Corporate lending revenues rose 8% 

to $2.0 billion, including $323 million of mark-to-market gains on hedges 
related to accrual loans compared to a $116 million gain in the prior year. 

Excluding the impact of FX translation and the mark-to-market impact 
of loan hedges, corporate lending revenues increased 3% versus the prior 
year, as growth in average loans was partially offset by the impact of lower 

spreads. Treasury and trade solutions revenues of $7.8 billion were relatively 

unchanged versus the prior year. Excluding the impact of FX translation, 

treasury and trade solutions revenues increased 6%, as continued growth in 
deposit balances and spreads was partially offset by lower trade revenues.9Markets and securities services revenues of $16.3 billion, excluding CVA/DVA, decreased 1% from the prior year. Fixed income markets revenues 
of $11.3 billion, excluding CVA/DVA, decreased 7% from the prior year, 

as growth in rates and currencies was more than offset by a slowdown in 
spread products, reflecting the volatile trading environment during the year. 

Equity markets revenues of $3.1 billion, excluding CVA/DVA, increased 13% 

versus the prior year driven by growth across all products. Securities services 
revenues of $2.1 billion increased 4% versus the prior year, and increased 15% 

excluding the impact of FX translation, reflecting increased client activity 
and higher client balances. For additional information on the results of 
operations of ICG for 2015, see ﬁInstitutional Clients Groupﬂ below.
Corporate/Other revenues increased to $907 million from $301 million in the prior year, driven mainly by gains on debt buybacks during the course of 

2015. For additional information on the results of operations of Corporate/Other in 2015, see ﬁCorporate/Otherﬂ below.
Citicorp end-of-period loans increased 1% to $573 billion from the prior year, as a 5% increase in corporate loans was partially offset by a 

2% decrease in consumer loans. Excluding the impact of FX translation, 
Citicorp loans grew 5%, with 8% growth in corporate loans and 2% growth in 
consumer loans.Citi Holdings
Citi Holdings™ net income was $1.0 billion in 2015, compared to a net loss of 
$3.5 billion in the prior year. CVA/DVA was negative $15 million (negative 
$10 million after-tax) in 2015, compared to negative $47 million (negative 
$29 million after-tax) in the prior year. Excluding the impact of CVA/DVA in 
both periods and the impact of the mortgage settlement in the prior year, Citi 
Holdings™ net income was $1.1 billion, compared to $275 million in the prior 
year, primarily reflecting lower expenses and lower credit costs.Citi Holdings™ revenues were largely unchanged from the prior year at $7.8 billion. Excluding CVA/DVA, Citi Holdings™ revenues decreased 1% to 

$7.9 billion from the prior year, primarily driven by the overall wind-down of 

the portfolio and the impact of redemptions of high cost debt, mostly offset by 
the impact of higher gains on asset sales. For additional information on the 
results of operations of Citi Holdings in 2015, see ﬁCiti Holdingsﬂ below.
At the end of 2015, Citi Holdings™ assets were $74 billion, 43% below the prior year, and represented approximately 4% of Citi™s total GAAP assets. 

Citi Holdings™ risk-weighted assets were $133 billion as of December 31, 
2015, a decrease of 30% from the prior year, and represented 11% of Citi™s 

risk-weighted assets under Basel III (based on the Advanced Approaches for 
determining risk-weighted assets).10In millions of dollars, except per-share amounts and ratios
2015
$46,630
łłłł
29,724
Revenues, net of interest expense
$76,354
łłłł

43,615

7,913
Income from continuing operations before income taxes$24,826
łłłł
7,440Žžœ
Income from continuing operations$17,386
łłłł
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes 
(1)(54)“‹‘‹œ›
Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$17,332
łłłł

90‹‹œ
Citigroup™s net income
$17,242
łłłł
$769
łłł‹†ł‹†

˙˙
ˆ
224‹†Ž
Income allocated to unrestricted common shareholders for basic EPS$16,249
łłłł

Š
Income allocated to unrestricted common shareholders for diluted EPS$16,249
łłłł
Earnings per shareBasic
$5.43
łł‚−‹†łł
5.41‚−Ž„‹−‚ž
Diluted

$5.42
ł‹−‹›ł‚−‹„ł‹−‚‚ł
5.40‹−‹›‚−Ž‚‹−‚‹Ž−†›
Dividends declared per common share
0.16›−›‚›−›‚›−›‚›−›Ž

Citigroup Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries
11In millions of dollars, except per-share amounts, ratios and direct staff
2015
At December 31:‰
$1,731,210
łłłł
‰
907,887
201,275

205,139
‰
221,857

(in thousands)231‹„ž‹††
Performance metrics


0.95%›−Žž¤›−œŽ¤›−Žž¤›−„†¤

“‹‘8.1Ž−‚œ−›†−Ž
“‹‘7.9Ž−„†−ž†−Ž
57†Žœ‹†„Basel III ratiosŠfull implementation
‰
“Ž‘12.07%ı¥—
‰
“Ž‘13.49ž−›Žı¥—
‰
“Ž‘15.30ı¥—

“‚‘7.08„−ž‚„−‚‹ı¥—ı¥—

11.85%ž−žž¤ž−‚†¤
‰
12.82

“„‘3.0›−ž$69.46
ł††−›„łłł
•ˆ
2.89x‹−››‡
˙

“‹‘˙
…˙ˆ−˙
…˙ˆ−
“Ž‘˙

“‚‘˙

“„‘˙
ı¥—˙
Citigroup Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries
12The following tables show the income (loss) and revenues for Citigroup on a segment and business view:In millions of dollars2015
% Change 2015 vs. 2014

Income (loss) from continuing operationsCITICORPGlobal Consumer BankingNorth America$4,255
łł
(4)%Latin America
928
(20)“œ‘Asia (1)1,199
(4)Total
$6,382
łł
(6)%‚¤Institutional Clients GroupNorth America$3,621
łł
(12)%ŽŽ¤EMEA2,288
12“‹›‘Latin America
1,328
(1)Asia2,214
8“œ‘Total
$9,451
łł
(1)%¤Corporate/Other$495
łł
NMı–Total Citicorp
$16,328
łł
49%“‹ž‘¤Citi Holdings$1,058
łł
NMIncome from continuing operations$17,386
łł
NM“‚„‘¤Discontinued operations$(54)
ł“‹‘ł‹œ›
NMı–Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests90‹‹œ
(53)%Citigroup™s net income
$17,242
łł
NM“‚†‘¤˙˙
Asia GCB
EMEA GCB
ı–˙13In millions of dollars2015
% Change  2015 vs. 2014˙CITICORPGlobal Consumer BankingNorth America$19,448
łł
(1)%Latin America
7,323
(13)Asia (1)7,091
(10)Total
$33,862
łł
(6)%Institutional Clients GroupNorth America$13,105
łł
1%EMEA9,799
4“†Latin America
3,918
(4)Asia6,926
5Total
$33,748
łł
2%Corporate/Other$907
łłŽ‹‹
NM“œ‘¤Total Citicorp
$68,517
łł
(1)%Citi Holdings$7,837
łł
Š%Total Citigroup net revenues
$76,354
łł
(1)%˙˙
Asia GCB
EMEA GCB
ı–˙14In millions of dollarsGlobal Consumer BankingInstitutional Clients GroupCorporate/Other and consolidating eliminations (2)Subtotal CiticorpCiti HoldingsCitigroup Parent 
company- 
issued long-term debt and stockholders™ equity (3)Total 
Citigroup consolidatedAssets$11,389$60,557$60,285$132,231$866$Š$133,097

127218,336
Š218,4631,212
Š219,675
‰
5,290240,022
1,382246,6943,262
Š249,956
7,273108,248
220,451335,9726,983
Š342,955


277,323284,871
Š562,19442,797
Š604,991
44,04775,504
45,237164,78815,748
Š180,536
“‚‘48,148223,811
(275,553)(3,594)3,594
ŠŠTotal assets
$393,597$1,211,349$51,802$1,656,748$74,462$Š$1,731,210
Liabilities and equity‰
$301,438$587,336$12,058$900,832$7,055$Š$907,887

4,235142,200
Š146,43561
Š146,496
‰
3116,633
41116,677835
Š117,512
10020,962
Š21,06217
Š21,079
1,89131,924
21,30755,1223,996142,157201,275

16,81373,211
17,349107,3736,496
Š113,869

“Ž‘69,117239,083
(188)308,01256,002(364,014)
ŠTotal liabilities
$393,597$1,211,349$50,567$1,655,513$74,462$(221,857)$1,508,118
Total equity
ŠŠ1,2351,235Š221,857223,092
Total liabilities and equity
$393,597$1,211,349$51,802$1,656,748$74,462$Š$1,731,210
˙

˙˙
˙

“‹‘˙

Corporate/Other
“Ž‘˙


“‚‘˙
˛˝
15Citicorp is Citigroup™s global bank for consumers and businesses and represents Citi™s core franchises. Citicorp is focused on providing best-in-class products and services to customers and leveraging Citigroup™s unparalleled global network, including many of the world™s emerging economies. Citicorp is physically present 
in approximately 100 countries, many for over 100 years, and offers services in over 160 countries and jurisdictions. Citi believes this global network provides a strong foundation for servicing the broad financial services needs of its large multinational clients and for meeting the needs of retail, private banking, 
commercial, public sector and institutional clients around the world.Citicorp consists of the following operating businesses: Global Consumer Banking (which consists of consumer banking businesses in North America, EMEA, Latin America and Asia) and Institutional Clients Group (which includes Banking and Markets and securities services). Citicorp also includes 
Corporate/Other. At December 31, 2015, Citicorp had approximately $1.7 trillion of assets and $901 billion of deposits, representing approximately 96% of Citi™s total assets and 99% of Citi™s total deposits.
Consistent with its strategy to continue to efficiently allocate its resources and further simplify its Global Consumer Bank, in February 2016, Citi announced that it intends to exit its consumer businesses in Argentina, Brazil and Colombia. These consumer businesses, consisting of approximately $6 billion of assets, $5 
billion of consumer loans and $3 billion of deposits as of December 31, 2015, contributed approximately $1.1 billion of revenues, $900 million of expenses and 
a net loss of $34 million in 2015. These businesses, which previously have been reported as part of Latin America GCB, will be reported as part of Citi Holdings beginning in the first quarter of 2016. See also ﬁCitigroup Segmentsﬂ above and ﬁCiti Holdingsﬂ below. While Citi does not intend to exit its consumer businesses 

in Venezuela, these businesses are not significant, lending predominantly to support 
ICG activities, and will be reported as part of ICG beginning in the first quarter of 2016. Similarly, Citi™s remaining indirect investment in Banco de Chile will be reported as part of 
ICG beginning in the first quarter of 2016.In millions of dollars except as otherwise noted2015
% Change  2015 vs. 2014
$42,926
łł
(1)%‹¤25,591
(1)“†Total revenues, net of interest expense
$68,517
łł
(1)%Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$6,236
łł
(13)%
309
NM“„Ž
$6,545
łł
11%
107
(26)
100ž›NMı–‰
$6,752
łł
15%Total operating expenses
$39,000
łł
(14)%Income from continuing operations before taxes$22,765
łł
26%6,437
(10)“‹Income from continuing operations$16,328
łł
49%“‹ž‘¤
(54)“‹‹œ›NMı–79
(58)Net income$16,195
łł
50%Balance sheet data (in billions of dollars)
Total end-of-period (EOP) assets
$1,657
łł
(3)%—
1,712
(2‹
0.95%›−†‹¤
Efficiency ratio
57†„
Total EOP loans
$573
ł„†„ł„†„
1ﬂTotal EOP deposits
901ž››
2“‹16Global Consumer Banking (GCB) consists of Citigroup™s four geographical consumer banking businesses that provide traditional banking services to retail customers through retail banking, including commercial banking, and Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services (for additional information on these businesses, see ﬁCitigroup Segmentsﬂ above). GCB is a globally diversified business with 2,994 branches in 24 countries around the world as of December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2015, GCB had approximately $394 billion of assets and $301 billion of deposits.GCB™s overall strategy is to leverage Citi™s global footprint and seek to be the preeminent bank for the emerging affluent and affluent consumers in large 
urban centers. In credit cards and in certain retail markets, Citi serves customers in a somewhat broader set of segments and geographies. Consistent with its 
strategy, since 2012, Citi has exited, or is in the process of exiting, 20 consumer markets and has reduced its branch footprint by 25% to focus its global presence.
In millions of dollars except as otherwise noted2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
% Change 2015 vs. 2014
ˇ˜˚˛˙
$26,881

(4)%˛ˆ6,981
(14)Total revenues, net of interest expense
$33,862

(6)%†
$18,264

(8)%˛ˆ$6,029

(12)%
(318)
72
5
NM
107˛˝˝
(26)
$5,823

Š%
$9,775

(4)%˙ˆ3,393
(1)˜Income from continuing operations$6,382

(6)%˝ˆ9˛˝
(64)Net income$6,373

(6)%˝ˆBalance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)ƒ
$391
˝˚˛
(4)%˜ˆ
1.63%
‹‡
54
†
$394
˝˛˙
(3)ƒ
300
(2)˜
2.14%
Revenue by business$14,777

(4)%19,085
(7)˛Total
$33,862

(6)%Income from continuing operations by business$1,989

11%4,393
(13)Total
$6,382

(6)%˝ˆ†
17Foreign currency (FX) translation impact
†
$33,862

(6)%
Š
†
$33,862

(1)%˛ˆ†
$18,264

(8)%˛ˆ
Š
†
$18,264

(3)%˜ˆ†
$5,823

Š%
Š
†
$5,823

9%$6,373

(6)%˝ˆ
Š
$6,373

(3)%ˇ
ˇ

ˇ18North America GCB provides traditional retail banking, including commercial banking, and its Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services card products to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses, as applicable, in the U.S. North America GCB™s U.S. cards product portfolio includes its proprietary portfolio (including the Citi Double Cash, Thank You and Value cards) and co-branded cards (including, among others, American Airlines and Hilton Worldwide) within 
Citi-branded cards as well as its co-brand and private label relationships within Citi retail services.As of December 31, 2015, North America GCB™s 780 retail bank branches are concentrated in the six key metropolitan areas of New York, Chicago, Miami, 
Washington, D.C., Los Angeles and San Francisco. Also as of December 31, 2015, 
North America GCB had approximately 10.9 million retail banking customer accounts, $51.8 billion of retail banking loans and $172.8 billion of deposits. In addition, North America GCB had approximately 113.4 million Citi-branded and Citi retail services credit card accounts, with $113.3 billion in outstanding card loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
% Change 2015 vs. 2014
ˇ˜˚˛˙
$17,481

2%˙ˆ1,967
(20)Total revenues, net of interest expense
$19,448

(1)%†
$9,186

(5)%$3,753

(11)%
(339)
73
7NM
38˝˚
(5)
$3,459

15%
$6,803

(2)%˛˛ˆ2,548
ŠIncome from continuing operations$4,255

(4)%˛˙ˆŠ„
100„Net income$4,255

(4)%˛˙ˆBalance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)ƒ
$208
˜˛˛˜˚˝
(1)%˙ˆ
2.05%
‹‡
47
ƒ
$171.8

1˙
2.39%
Revenue by business$5,208

6%7,809
(6)˛
6,431
Š˝Total
$19,448

(1)%Income from continuing operations by business$659

86%2,075
(13)˜˙
1,521
(9)Total
$4,255

(4)%˛˙ˆˇ19Net income decreased by 4% due to lower loan loss reserve releases and lower revenues, partially offset by lower expenses and lower net credit losses.Revenues decreased 1%, reflecting lower revenues in Citi-branded cards, partially offset by higher revenues in retail banking.Retail banking revenues increased 6%. The increase was primarily driven by 7% growth in average loans, 9% growth in average checking 
deposits, improved deposit spreads and slightly higher mortgage origination 
revenues, partially offset by lower net gains on branch sales (approximately 
$40 million) and mortgage portfolio sales (approximately $80 million) 
as well as a lower mortgage repurchase reserve release (approximately 
$50 million) compared to 2014. This growth in retail banking revenues 
occurred despite the fact that, consistent with GCB™s strategy, during 2015, 
North America GCB closed or sold 69 branches (a 9% decline from the prior 
year), with announced plans to sell or close an additional 50 branches in the 
first quarter of 2016. With these actions, over 90% of North America GCB™s 
retail banking footprint will be concentrated in its six key metropolitan areas.Cards revenues decreased 3% due to a 2% decline in average loans, partially offset by a 4% increase in purchase sales. In Citi-branded cards, 
revenues decreased 6%, primarily reflecting an increase in acquisition and 
rewards costs, particularly during the second half of 2015 as North America GCB deployed its investment spending (as discussed below) to grow its new 
account acquisitions in its core products. North America GCB expects the 
increased acquisition and rewards costs within Citi-branded cards to continue 
to negatively impact revenues in 2016. The decrease in Citi-branded cards 
revenues was also due to the continued impact of lower average loans (down 
4%), driven primarily by continued high customer payment rates during the 
year, partially offset by a 6% increase in purchase sales.
Citi retail services revenues were largely unchanged as the continued impact of lower fuel prices, which negatively impacts purchase sales in the 
fuel portfolios, and higher contractual partner payments was offset by the 
impact of higher spreads and volumes (1% increase in average loans). The 
higher contractual partner payments resulted from the business sharing the 
benefits of higher yields and lower net credit losses with its retail partners. 
Purchase sales were unchanged as the continued impact of lower fuel prices 
was offset by volume growth. North America GCB expects the negative 
impact of lower fuel prices on Citi retail services revenues to continue in the 
near term.Expenses decreased 5%, primarily due to ongoing cost reduction initiatives, including as a result of the branch rationalization strategy, and 

lower repositioning charges, partially offset by increased investment spending 
(including marketing, among other areas) in Citi-branded cards, which is 
expected to continue into 2016.Provisions increased 15% largely due to lower net loan loss reserve releases (73%), partially offset by lower net credit losses (11%). Net credit 
losses declined in Citi-branded cards (down 14% to $1.9 billion) and in Citi 
retail services (down 8% to $1.7 billion). The lower loan loss reserve release reflected overall credit stabilization in the cards portfolios during 2015. As a 
result of this stabilization, North America GCB expects to experience modest 
loan loss reserve builds during 2016.In addition to the trends discussed above expected to impact North America GCB™s results of operations in 2016, 
North America GCB expects 
to make additional investments in its U.S. cards businesses during 2016, 
including investments in connection with Citi™s planned acquisition of 

the Costco portfolio, the closing of which is currently expected to occur 
mid-2016, as well as the expected impact of renewing certain important 
partnership programs in a competitive environment (see also ﬁRisk 
FactorsŠOperational Risksﬂ below). While North America GCB believes 
these investments are necessary for the growth of its U.S. cards businesses, 
they will reduce the pretax earnings of the businesses during 2016.Net income increased by 13% due to lower net credit losses, higher loan loss 
reserve releases and lower expenses, partially offset by lower revenues.Revenues decreased 1%, with lower revenues in retail banking, partially offset by higher revenues in Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services. 
Retail banking revenues of $4.9 billion decreased 9% due to lower mortgage 
origination revenues and spread compression in the deposit portfolios, 
partially offset by continued volume-related growth (average loans increased 
9% and average deposits increased 3%) and gains from branch sales.Cards revenues increased 2% as average loans increased 3% versus 2013. In Citi-branded cards, revenues increased 1% as a 4% increase in purchase 
sales and higher net interest spreads, driven by the continued reduction of 
promotional balances in the portfolio, mostly offset lower average loans. 
The decline in average loans was driven primarily by the reduction in 
promotional balances, and to a lesser extent, increased customer payment 
rates during the year.
Citi retail services revenues increased 4%, primarily due to a 12% increase in average loans driven by the Best Buy acquisition in September 2013, 
partially offset by continued declines in fee revenues primarily reflecting 
higher yields and improving credit and the resulting increase in contractual 
partner payments. Citi retail services revenues also benefited from lower 
funding costs, partially offset by a decline in net interest spreads due to a 
higher percentage of promotional balances within the portfolio.Expenses decreased 1% as ongoing cost reduction initiatives were partially offset by higher repositioning charges, increased investment spending and 
an increase in Citi retail services expenses due to the impact of the Best Buy 
portfolio acquisition.Provisions decreased 18% due to lower net credit losses (9%) and higher loan loss reserve releases (21%). Net credit losses declined in Citi-branded 
cards (down 14% to $2.2 billion) and in Citi retail services (down 2% to 
$1.9 billion). The loan loss reserve release increased due to the continued 
improvement in Citi-branded cards, partially offset by a lower loan loss 
reserve release in Citi retail services due to reserve builds for new loans 
originated in the Best Buy portfolio.20Latin America GCB provides traditional retail banking, including commercial banking, and its Citi-branded card products to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses, as applicable, with the largest presence in Mexico. As of December 31, 2015, Latin America GCB includes branch networks in Brazil, Argentina, Colombia and Venezuela as well as Banco Nacional de Mexico, or Banamex, Mexico™s second-largest bank.At December 31, 2015, Latin America GCB had 1,694 retail branches (1,492 through Banamex in Mexico), with approximately 31.9 million retail banking customer accounts, $24.0 billion in retail banking loans and $40.8 billion in deposits. In addition, the business had approximately 7.8 million Citi-branded card accounts with $7.5 billion in outstanding loan balances. As announced in February 2016, Citi intends to exit its consumer businesses in Argentina, Brazil and Colombia. For additional information, see ﬁCitigroup Segmentsﬂ and ﬁCiticorpﬂ above.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
% Change 2015 vs. 2014
ˇ˜˚˛˙
$4,843

(15)%2,480
(11)Total revenues, net of interest expense
$7,323

(13)%†
$4,444

(11)%˛ˆ$1,549

(17)%
94˛˜˚
(22)
1„
NM„
69˛˚˝
(34)
$1,713

(18)%„ˆ
$1,166

(17)%238˜˝˝˙˛˙
(2)Income from continuing operations$928

(20)%3˙
(50)˛˚˚Net income$925

(20)%Balance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)ƒ
$64

(16)%
1.45%
‹‡
61
ƒ
$40.8

(8)˜
4.67%
Revenue by business$5,078

(11)%2,245
(19)˛Total
$7,323

(13)%Income from continuing operations by business$590

(20)%338
(19)Total
$928

(20)%FX translation impact†
$7,323

(13)%
Š
†
$7,323

3%˝ˆ†
$4,444

(11)%˛ˆ
Š
†
$4,444

5%
$1,713

(18)%„ˆ
Š

$1,713

Š%$925

(20)%
Š
$925

(5)%ˇ
ˇ21The discussion of the results of operations for Latin America GCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of certain of these metrics to 
the reported results, see the table above.Net income decreased 5% as higher expenses were partially offset by 
higher revenues.Revenues increased 3%, primarily due to the approximately $180 million gain on sale in the third quarter of 2015 related to the Mexico merchant 
acquiring business. Excluding this gain, revenues increased 1% as the impact 
of modest volume growth was mostly offset by the absence of gains and 
revenues from businesses divested in 2014, including as a result of the sale 
of the Honduras consumer business in the second quarter and the partial 
sale of Citi™s indirect investment in Banco de Chile in the first quarter, as well 

as continued spread compression in cards. Revenues were also impacted by 
continued slow economic growth in the region during 2015.Retail banking revenues increased 6%, excluding the gain on sale related to the merchant acquiring business and the business divestitures in 2014. 
This increase in retail banking revenues reflected volume growth, including 
an increase in average loans (4%) and average deposits (5%), partially 
offset by a decline in investment sales (15%). Cards revenues decreased 2%, 
primarily due to higher payment rates in Mexico resulting from the business™ 
focus on higher credit quality customers, consistent with GCB™s
 strategy, as 
well as muted volumes (low purchase sales growth and unchanged average 
loans). Cards revenues were also negatively impacted by ongoing shifts in 
consumer behavior, including due to the previously-disclosed regulatory 

reforms enacted in 2013 in Mexico. Latin America GCB expects the cards 
payment rate in Mexico to remain elevated in 2016.Expenses increased 5%, primarily due to higher regulatory and compliance costs, higher technology spending and mandatory salary 
increases in certain countries, partially offset by lower repositioning charges, 
lower legal and related costs and ongoing efficiency savings.Provisions were unchanged as higher net credit losses were partially offset by a lower net loan loss reserve build. Net credit losses increased 1%, 
largely reflecting portfolio growth as well as net credit losses incurred in the 
commercial banking portfolio in the fourth quarter of 2015 associated with 
a wind-down portfolio in Brazil, most of which was offset by the release of 
previously-established loan loss reserves. The higher net credit losses were 
partially offset by the absence of a $71 million charge-off in the fourth 
quarter of 2014 related to Citi™s homebuilder exposure in Mexico. The net 

loan loss reserve build declined 13%, primarily due to lower builds related to 
Mexico cards, partially offset by higher builds related to Brazil in the second 
half of 2015, as well as the absence of the releases related to the Mexico 
homebuilder exposure in 2014.Argentina/Venezuela
For additional information on Citi™s exposures and risks in Argentina and 
Venezuela, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCountry Riskﬂ below.Net income increased 7% as higher revenues were partially offset by higher 
expenses and credit costs.Revenues increased 4%, primarily due to volume growth and spread and fee growth in Mexico, partially offset by continued spread compression in 
the region and slower overall economic growth in certain Latin America markets, including Mexico and Brazil during 2014. Retail banking revenues 
increased 3% as average loans increased 6%, investment sales increased 25% 
and average deposits increased 6%, partially offset by lower spreads in Brazil 
and Colombia. Cards revenues increased 8% as average loans increased 
5% and purchase sales increased 1%, excluding the impact of Credicard™s 

results in the prior-year period (for additional information, see Note 2 to 

the Consolidated Financial Statements). The increase in cards revenues was 
partially offset by lower economic growth and slowing cards purchase sales 
in Mexico due to the regulatory reforms enacted during 2013, as referenced 
above.Expenses increased 5%, primarily due to mandatory salary increases in certain countries, higher legal and related costs, increased repositioning 
charges and higher technology spending, partially offset by productivity and 
repositioning savings.Provisions increased 5%, primarily due to higher net credit losses, which were partially offset by a lower loan loss reserve build. Net credit losses 
increased 22%, driven by portfolio growth and continued seasoning in the 
Mexico cards portfolio. Net credit losses were also impacted by both the 
slower economic growth and regulatory reforms in Mexico as well as the 
$71 million charge-off related to Citi™s homebuilder exposure in Mexico.
22Asia GCB provides traditional retail banking, including commercial banking, and its Citi-branded card products to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses, as applicable. As of December 31, 2015, Citi™s most significant revenues in the region were from Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia, India, 
Taiwan, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines. In addition, for reporting purposes, Asia GCB includes the results of operations of EMEA GCB, which provides traditional retail banking, including commercial banking, and Citi-branded card products to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses, 
primarily in Poland, Russia and the United Arab Emirates.At December 31, 2015, on a combined basis, the businesses had 520 retail branches, approximately 17.5 million retail banking customer accounts, $71.0 billion in retail banking loans and $87.8 billion in deposits. In addition, the business had approximately 16.9 million Citi-branded card accounts with 
$17.7 billion in outstanding loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted 
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
% Change 2015 vs. 2014
ˇˇ˜˚˛˙$4,557

(10)%2,534
(11)˙Total revenues, net of interest expense
$7,091

(10)%†
$4,634

(12)%ˆ$727

(8)%˙ˆ
(73)
NM
(3)˙˛
79
$651

(14)%
$1,806

(3)%607
(1)Income from continuing operations$1,199

(4)%6˜˚˛˛
(70)Net income$1,193

(3)%Balance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)ƒ
$120
˛˜˜
(2)%˙ˆ
0.99%
‹‡
65
ƒ
$87.9

(2)„
0.80%
Revenue by business$4,491

(8)%˜ˆ2,600
(14)Total
$7,091

(10)%Income from continuing operations by business$740

7%459
(18)Total
$1,199

(4)%FX translation impact
†
$7,091

(10)%
Š
†
$7,091

(3)%˜ˆ†
$4,634

(12)%
Š
†
$4,634

(4)%ˆ
$651

(14)%
Š

$651

(1)%$1,193

(3)%
Š
$1,193

(2)%ˇˇ
Asia GCB
EMEA GCBˇ‡
ˇ

ˇ23The discussion of the results of operations for Asia GCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of certain of these metrics to the reported 
results, see the table above.Net income decreased 2%, primarily due to lower revenues, partially offset by 
lower expenses.Revenues decreased 3%, primarily due to an industry-wide slowdown in investment sales, particularly in the second half of 2015, as well as spread 
compression and higher payment rates and the ongoing impact of regulatory 
changes in cards, partially offset by volume growth.Retail banking revenues decreased 2%, mainly due to a decline in investment sales revenue, particularly in Taiwan, Singapore, India, Korea 

and Indonesia, reflecting weaker customer confidence due to slowing 
economic growth and volatility in the capital markets, as well as spread 
compression, particularly in Poland. This decline in revenues was partially 
offset by higher volumes, driven by lending (2% increase in average loans), 
deposit products (5% increase in average deposits) and higher insurance 
fee revenues. Citi expects investment sales revenues could continue to be 
challenged in 2016, depending upon overall consumer sentiment, economic 
growth and the capital markets environment in the region.Cards revenues decreased 5%, primarily due to spread compression, including continued high payment rates, and the ongoing impact of 
regulatory changes, particularly in Singapore, Taiwan, Australia, Malaysia 

and Poland, partially offset by modest volume growth (a 3% increase in 
average loans and a 5% increase in purchase sales). Cards revenues were also 
impacted by the weaker customer confidence, primarily in the second half 
of 2015. Spread compression and regulatory changes will likely continue to 
have a negative impact on cards revenues in the near term.Expenses decreased 4%, primarily due to the absence of repositioning charges in Korea in 2014 and efficiency savings, partially offset by higher 
regulatory and compliance costs, investment spending, volume-related 
growth and compensation expense.Provisions decreased 1%, primarily due to higher loan loss reserve releases, largely offset by an increase in net credit losses related to the 
consumer business in Russia due to a deterioration in the economic 
environment. Overall credit quality remained stable across the region 
during 2015.Net income decreased 8%, primarily due to higher expenses, partially offset 
by lower credit costs and higher revenues.Revenues increased 2%, reflecting higher retail banking revenues, partially offset by lower cards revenues. Retail banking revenues increased 
4%, due to higher insurance fee revenues and volume growth (average 
retail loans increased 8% and average retail deposits increased 2%), 
partially offset by the ongoing impact of regulatory changes and continued 
spread compression.Cards revenues decreased 1%, due to the impact of regulatory changes, particularly in Korea, Indonesia and Singapore, spread compression and 
customer deleveraging, largely offset by a 2% increase in average loans and 
a 3% increase in purchase sales driven by growth in China, India, Singapore 
and Hong Kong.Expenses increased 7%, primarily due to higher repositioning charges in Korea, investment spending and volume-related growth, partially offset by 
higher efficiency savings.Provisions decreased 9%, primarily due to higher overall loan loss reserve releases, partially offset by a loan loss reserve build related to the consumer 
business in Russia.24Institutional Clients Group (ICG) provides corporate, institutional, public sector and high-net-worth clients around the world with a full range of wholesale banking products and services, including fixed income and equity sales and trading, foreign exchange, prime brokerage, derivative services, equity and 
fixed income research, corporate lending, investment banking and advisory services, private banking, cash management, trade finance and securities 
services. ICG transacts with clients in both cash instruments and derivatives, including fixed income, foreign currency, equity and commodity products.ICG revenue is generated primarily from fees and spreads associated with these activities. ICG earns fee income for assisting clients in clearing transactions, providing brokerage and investment banking services and other such activities. Revenue generated from these activities is recorded in Commissions and fees and Investment banking. In addition, as a market maker, 
ICG facilitates transactions, including holding product inventory to meet client demand, and earns 
the differential between the price at which it buys and sells the products. These price differentials and the unrealized gains and losses on the inventory are 
recorded in Principal transactions. Other primarily includes mark-to-market gains and losses on credit derivatives, gains and losses on available-for-sale (AFS) 

securities and other non-recurring gains and losses. Interest income earned on inventory and loans held less interest paid to customers on deposits is recorded as 
Net interest revenue. Revenue is also generated from transaction processing and assets under custody and administration.ICG™s international presence is supported by trading floors in approximately 80 countries and a proprietary network in over 95 countries and jurisdictions. At 
December 31, 2015, ICG had approximately $1.2 trillion of assets and $587 billion of deposits, while two of its businesses, securities services and issuer services, managed approximately $15.1 trillion of assets under custody compared to $16.1 trillion at the end of 2014. The decline in assets under custody from 2014 was 
primarily due to the impact of FX translation and a decline in market volumes. In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
% Change  2015 vs. 2014
ˇ˜˚˛˙
$3,855

(4)%„ˆ
2,424
(4)4,110
(4)˛˛5,823
(1)1,337
NM†
$17,549

1%16,199
3˛Total revenues, net of interest expense
$33,748

2%†
$18,985

(2)%$207

(25)%
627
NM˝˙
95
NM
$929

NM
$13,834

2%„ˆ4,383
8Income from continuing operations$9,451

(1)%˛ˆ52˛˛˚
(56)Net income$9,399

Š%˛ˆƒ
(in billions of dollars)$1,266

(2)%˜ˆ
0.74%
‹‡
56Revenues by regionNorth America$13,105

1%˛˙ˆEMEA9,799
4Latin America
3,918
(4)Asia6,926
5Total
$33,748

2%ˇ

25Income from continuing operations by regionNorth America$3,621

(12)%˙˙ˆEMEA2,288
12Latin America
1,328
(1)Asia2,214
8Total
$9,451

(1)%˛ˆƒ
(in billions of dollars)North America$125
˛˛˛
13%˛˙ˆEMEA592Latin America
39˝˚(3)Asia62(9)Total
$285

3%
(in billions of dollars)†
$392

3%„ˆICG195
11Total
$587

6%In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
% Change 2015 vs. 2014
ˇ˜˚˛˙

›
$1,102

16%˛˜ˆ902
(28)2,539
1„†
$4,543

(3)%†
7,767
Š˛
1,694
(3)
2,860
8Total banking revenues (ex-CVA/DVA and gain (loss) 
on loan hedges)$16,864

Š%
$323

NMTotal banking revenues (ex-CVA/DVA and including gain (loss) 
on loan hedges)$17,187

1%$11,346

(7)%3,128
13
2,130
4˝(312)
46Total 
Markets and securities services
 (ex-CVA/DVA)
$16,292

(1)%Total 
ICG (ex-CVA/DVA)
$33,479

Š%˘łƒıŽł
269
NM˛215
NM52˜˝
NM
2
NMTotal revenues, net of interest expense
$33,748

2%ˇ
ˇ

ˇ
ƒˇ‡ˇ
ˇ26The discussion of the results of operations for ICG below excludes the impact of CVA/DVA for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of CVA/DVA and the impact of gains/(losses) on hedges on accrual loans, are non-GAAP financial measures. For a 
reconciliation of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.Net income decreased 4%, primarily driven by higher credit costs, partially 
offset by lower expenses. Revenues were largely unchanged, reflecting lower revenues in Markets and securities services (decrease of 1%) and a modest increase in revenues in Banking (increase of 1%, but unchanged excluding the gains/(losses) on hedges on accrual loans). Citi expects revenues in ICG, particularly in its Markets and securities services businesses, will likely 
continue to reflect the overall market environment.Within Banking: Investment banking revenues decreased 3%, largely reflecting an industry-wide activity decline in underwriting activity. Advisory revenues 
increased 16%, reflecting increased target client activity and strength in 
the overall M&A market. Equity underwriting revenues decreased 28% 
driven by the lower market activity and a decline in wallet share resulting 
from continued share fragmentation. Debt underwriting revenues 
increased 1%, driven by increased wallet share in investment grade debt 
and strong performance in investment grade loans in the second half of 
2015, partially offset by the lower market activity and decreased wallet 
share in high-yield and leveraged loans. Treasury and trade solutions revenues were largely unchanged. 
Excluding the impact of FX translation, revenues increased 6%, as 
continued growth in deposit balances across regions and improved 
spreads, particularly in North America, were partially offset by continued declines in trade balances and spreads. End-of-period deposit balances 
increased 3% (7% excluding the impact of FX translation), largely driven 
by Asia and Latin America. Average trade loans decreased 12% (9% 
excluding the impact of FX translation), as the business maintained 
origination volumes while reducing lower spread assets and increasing 
asset sales to optimize returns (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠLiquidity 
Riskﬂ below). Corporate lending revenues increased 8%. Excluding the impact of 
gains/(losses) on hedges on accrual loans, revenues decreased 3%. 
Excluding the impact of FX translation and gains/(losses) on hedges on 
accrual loans, revenues increased 3% as continued growth in average loan 
balances, lower hedge premium costs and an improvement in mark-to-
market adjustments were partially offset by lower spreads, particularly 
in EMEA. Private bank revenues increased 8%, reflecting strength in North America, Asia and EMEA, primarily due to growth in loan volumes and deposit balances, improved spreads in banking and higher managed 
investments revenues, partially offset by continued spread compression 
in lending.Within Markets and securities services: Fixed income markets revenues decreased 7%, driven by North America, primarily due to a volatile trading environment during 2015 due to macroeconomic uncertainty. The decrease in fixed income markets 
revenues resulted from a decline in spread products revenues (credit 
markets, securitized markets and municipals), partially offset by strength 
in rates and currencies. Rates and currencies revenues increased 4% due 
to higher revenues in local markets and overall G10 products, partially 
offset by G10 foreign exchange. Equity markets revenues increased 13%, primarily reflecting improved 
performance across products, including derivatives and prime finance, 
with strength in Asia and EMEA. Securities services revenues increased 4%. Excluding the impact of FX 
translation, revenues increased 15%, reflecting increased client activity 
and higher client balances.Expenses decreased 2% as efficiency savings, the impact of FX translation and lower repositioning charges were partially offset by increased regulatory and compliance costs and compensation expense. Provisions increased $872 million to $929 million, primarily reflecting a net loan loss reserve build ($722 million), compared to a net loan loss 
reserve release ($219 million) in 2014. The net loan loss reserve build 
included approximately $530 million for energy and energy-related 
exposures, including $250 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, due to the 
significant decline in commodity prices during the second half of 2015. 
(For additional information on Citi™s energy and energy-related exposures, 

see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCredit RiskŠCorporate Creditﬂ below.) The 

remainder of the build during 2015 was primarily due to volume growth and 
overall macroeconomic conditions.The higher net loan loss reserve build during 2015 was partially offset by lower net credit losses. Net credit losses decreased 25%, primarily due to 
the absence of net credit losses of approximately $165 million related to the 
Petróleos Mexicanos (Pemex) supplier program, which were incurred during 
2014 (for additional information, see Citi™s Form 8-K filed with the SEC 

on February 28, 2014), partially offset by increased net credit losses related 
to a limited number of energy and energy-related exposures, including 
approximately $75 million in the fourth quarter of 2015.Looking to 2016, cost of credit in ICG will largely depend on the price of oil and other commodity prices as well as macroeconomic conditions. To 

the extent commodity prices remain at year-end 2015 levels, or deteriorate 

further, 
ICG expects to incur additional loan loss reserve builds in its 
energy and energy-related portfolios, which could be significant, and Citi™s 

corporate non-accrual loans could be negatively impacted. Such events as 
well as macroeconomic conditions could also negatively impact Citi™s other 

corporate credit portfolios.27Net income increased 1%, primarily driven by lower expenses, largely offset by lower revenues. Excluding the impact of the net fraud loss of $360 million 
in Mexico in the fourth quarter of 2013, net income decreased 1%, primarily 
driven by the lower revenues and higher expenses, largely offset by lower 
credit costs. Revenues decreased 1%, reflecting lower revenues in Markets and securities services (decrease of 8%), partially offset by higher revenues in Banking (increase of 7%, or 5% excluding the gains/(losses) on hedges 
on accrual loans).Within Banking: Investment banking revenues increased 7%, reflecting a stronger overall market environment and improved wallet share with ICG™s target clients, partially offset by a modest decline in overall wallet share. The decline in 
overall wallet share was primarily driven by equity and debt underwriting 
and reflected market fragmentation. Advisory revenues increased 12%, 
reflecting the increased target client activity and an expansion of the 
overall M&A market. Equity underwriting revenues increased 18% largely 
in line with overall growth in market fees. Debt underwriting revenues 
were largely unchanged. Treasury and trade solutions revenues increased 1%. Excluding the 
impact of FX translation, revenues increased 3% as continued higher 
deposit balances, fee growth and trade activity were partially offset 
by the impact of spread compression globally. End-of-period deposit 
balances were unchanged, but increased 3% excluding the impact of 
FX translation, largely driven by North America. Average trade loans decreased 9% (7% excluding the impact of FX translation). Corporate lending revenues increased 52%. Excluding the impact of 
gains/(losses) on hedges on accrual loans, revenues increased 15%, 
primarily due to continued growth in average loan balances and lower 
funding costs. Private bank revenues increased 7% due to growth in client business 
volumes and improved spreads in banking, higher capital markets activity 
and an increase in assets under management in managed investments, 
partially offset by continued spread compression in lending.Within Markets and securities services: Fixed income markets revenues decreased 11%, driven by a decrease 
in rates and currencies revenues, partially offset by increased securitized 
products and commodities revenues. Rates and currencies revenues 
declined due to historically muted levels of volatility, uncertainties around 
Russia and Greece and lower client activity in the first half of 2014. In 
addition, the first half of 2013 included a strong performance in rates and 
currencies, driven in part by the impact of quantitative easing globally. 
Municipals and credit markets revenues declined due to challenging 
trading conditions resulting from macroeconomic uncertainties, 
particularly in the fourth quarter of 2014. These declines were partially 
offset by increased securitized products and commodities revenues, largely 
in North America. Equity markets revenues decreased 1%, primarily reflecting weakness in 
EMEA, particularly cash equities, driven by volatility in Europe, largely offset by improved performance in prime finance due to increased 
customer flows. Securities services revenues increased 4%. Excluding the impact of FX 
translation, revenues increased 5% due to increased volumes, assets under 
custody and overall client activity.Expenses decreased 1% as efficiency savings, the absence of the net fraud loss and lower performance-based compensation were partially offset by higher repositioning charges and legal and related expenses as 
well as increased regulatory and compliance costs. Excluding the impact 
of the net fraud loss, expenses increased 1%, as higher repositioning 
charges and legal and related expenses as well as increased regulatory 
and compliance costs were partially offset by efficiency savings and lower 
performance-based compensation. Provisions decreased 27%, primarily reflecting a release for unfunded lending commitments in the corporate loan portfolio, compared to a build 
in 2013, partially offset by higher net credit losses and a lower loan loss 
reserve release driven by the overall economic environment. Net credit losses 
increased 52%, largely related to the Pemex supplier program during 2014 as 
well as write-offs related to a specific counterparty.
28Corporate/Other includes certain unallocated costs of global staff functions (including finance, risk, human resources, legal and compliance), other corporate expenses and unallocated global operations and technology expenses, Corporate Treasury and discontinued operations. At December 31, 2015, 
Corporate/Other had $52 billion of assets, or 3% of Citigroup™s total assets. For additional information, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠLiquidity Riskﬂ below.In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
% Change 2015 vs. 2014
ˇ˜˚˛˙
$(154)

31%1,061
NMTotal revenues, net of interest expense
$907
˙˚˛˙˜˜
NM
$1,751

(71)%
Š——
Š—
$(844)

85%(1,339)
NMIncome (loss) from continuing operations$495

NM
(54)
NMNet income (loss) before attribution of noncontrolling interests$441

NM18˝˙
(58)%Net income (loss)$423

NMˇNet income was $423 million, compared to a net loss of $5.4 billion in 2014, 
largely reflecting significantly lower expenses, an increased tax benefit due to 
legal entity restructurings and resolution of certain state and local audits in 
the second quarter of 2015, as well as higher revenues.Revenues increased $606 million to $907 million, primarily due to gains on debt buybacks during the course of 2015 and real estate sales in the 
second quarter of 2015 as well as higher revenues from sales of AFS securities, 

partially offset by hedging activities.Expenses decreased $4.3 billion to $1.8 billion, largely driven by lower legal and related expenses ($796 million compared to $4.4 billion in 2014), 
a benefit from FX translation and lower repositioning charges.During the fourth quarter of 2015, a change was enacted to the dividend rate Citi is entitled to receive on the shares of capital stock it is required 
to hold in the Federal Reserve System. Pursuant to current requirements, 
Citibank, N.A. (Citibank) is required to purchase stock equal to 3% of its 
capital stock and surplus (with an additional 3% subject to call by the 
Federal Reserve Board). As a result of the recent change, effective January 1, 
2016, the statutory dividend Citi is to receive on these shares will decrease 
from a fixed 6% to the lesser of (i) the high-yield rate paid on the 10-year 
U.S. Treasury note based on the auction immediately preceding the dividend 

payment, and (ii) 6%. While the actual impact to Corporate/Other revenues (where Citi records this dividend) will be based on the number of shares of 
Federal Reserve System capital stock it holds at any given time as well as the 
quarter-to-quarter operational activities impacting the result of operations 

of Corporate/Other, based on year-end amounts, Citi estimates this change 

could negatively impact revenues in Corporate/Other by approximately 
$160 million annually going forward.The net loss increased $5.1 billion to $5.4 billion, primarily due to higher 
legal and related expenses.Revenues decreased 7%, primarily driven by lower revenues from sales of AFS securities as well as hedging activities.Expenses increased $5.0 billion to $6.0 billion, largely driven by the higher legal and related expenses ($4.4 billion compared to $172 million 
in 2013) as well as increased regulatory and compliance costs and higher 
repositioning charges.29Citi Holdings contains the remaining businesses and portfolios of assets that Citigroup has determined are not central to its core Citicorp businesses. Consistent with this determination, beginning in the first quarter of 2016, Citi™s consumer businesses in Argentina, Brazil and Colombia will be reported as part of Citi 
Holdings (for additional information, see ﬁCitigroup Segmentsﬂ and ﬁCiticorpﬂ above).As of December 31, 2015, Citi Holdings assets were approximately $74 billion, a decrease of 43% year-over-year and 33% from September 30, 2015. The 
decline in assets of $36 billion from September 30, 2015 primarily consisted of divestitures and run-off, including, among others, completion of the sales of 
Citi™s retail banking and credit cards businesses in Japan and OneMain Financial. As of December 31, 2015, Citi had signed agreements to reduce Citi Holdings 

GAAP assets by an additional $7 billion in 2016, subject to regulatory approvals and other closing conditions.Also as of December 31, 2015, consumer assets in Citi Holdings were approximately $64 billion, or approximately 86% of Citi Holdings assets. Of the consumer assets, approximately $38 billion, or 59%, consisted of North America mortgages (residential first mortgages and home equity loans). As of December 31, 2015, Citi Holdings represented approximately 4% of Citi™s GAAP assets and 11% of its risk-weighted assets under Basel III (based on the Advanced 

Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets).In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
% Change 2015 vs. 2014
ˇ˜˚˛˙
$3,704
˝‘˙˝⁄
(19)%4,133
27˙˝Total revenues, net of interest expense
$7,837

Š%Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$1,066

(42)%
(503)
45
$563

(39)%
624
(5)
(26)
NM—
$1,161

(26)%Total operating expenses
$4,615

(52)%˜˜ˆIncome (loss) from continuing operations before taxes$2,061

NM1,003
NMIncome (loss) from continuing operations$1,058

NM$11

83%Net income (loss)$1,047

NMTotal revenues, net of interest expense (excluding CVA/DVA)


$7,837

Š%˘›−‰„›−
(15)˙68Total revenues-excluding CVA/DVA
$7,852

(1)%Balance sheet data (in billions of dollars)
Average assets
$112
˛˝˝
(22)%
0.93%
”€
59˛˜˙

$74

(43)
45˛˚˚
(43)
7(59)ˇﬁ›−ˇ€ˇ
ˇ30The discussion of the results of operations for Citi Holdings below excludes the impact of CVA/DVA for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of CVA/DVA, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of Citi Holdings™ results excluding the 
impact of CVA/DVA is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a reconciliation of these metrics to the reported 
results, see the table above.Net income was $1.1 billion, an improvement from a net loss of $3.5 billion 

in 2014, largely due to the impact of the mortgage settlement in 2014 (see 

ﬁExecutive Summaryﬂ above). Excluding the mortgage settlement, net 

income increased $782 million, primarily due to lower expenses and lower net 

credit losses, partially offset by a lower net loan loss reserve release. While Citi 

Holdings expects to have positive net income during 2016, given the significant 

asset sales and declines in overall Citi Holdings™ assets during 2015, it does not 

expect to generate the same level of net income in 2016 as in 2015.Revenues decreased 1%, primarily driven by the overall wind-down of the portfolio, the impact of redemptions of high cost debt and the impact 
of recording OneMain Financial net credit losses as a reduction of revenue 
beginning in the second quarter of 2015, mostly offset by higher gains 
on asset sales, including in the fourth quarter of 2015 due to the sales of 
OneMain Financial and the retail banking and credit cards businesses 
in Japan.Expenses declined 52%. Excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement, 
expenses declined 22%, primarily due to the ongoing decline in assets and lower 

legal and related costs ($420 million compared to $986 million in 2014).Provisions decreased 26%. Excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement, provisions decreased 24%, driven by lower net credit losses, 
partially offset by a lower net loss reserve release. Net credit losses declined 
42%, primarily due to the impact of the recording of OneMain Financial net 
credit losses as a reduction in revenue, continued improvements in North America mortgages and overall lower asset levels. The net reserve release 
decreased 42%. Excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement, the net 
reserve release decreased 46% to $529 million, primarily due to lower releases 
related to the North America mortgage portfolio as the portfolio has been 
reduced and credit has improved.The net loss increased by $1.6 billion to $3.5 billion, largely due to the 
impact of the mortgage settlement, partially offset by higher revenues and 
lower cost of credit. Excluding the mortgage settlement, net income increased 
by $2.2 billion to $275 million, primarily due to lower expenses, lower net 
credit losses and higher revenues, partially offset by a lower net loan loss 
reserve release.Revenues increased 17%, primarily driven by gains on asset sales, including the sales of the consumer operations in Greece and Spain in the 
third quarter of 2014, lower funding costs and the absence of residential 
mortgage repurchase reserve builds for representation and warranty claims 
as compared to 2013, partially offset by losses on the redemption of debt 
associated with funding Citi Holdings assets.Expenses increased 22%. Excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement, expenses declined 25%, primarily driven by lower legal and 
related costs ($986 million compared to $2.6 billion in 2013) as well as the 
ongoing decline in assets.Provisions decreased 16%. Excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement, provisions declined 19%, driven by a 44% decline in net credit 
losses primarily due to continued improvements in North America mortgages and overall lower asset levels. The net reserve release decreased 
55%. Excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement, the net reserve release 
decreased 53%, primarily due to lower net releases related to the North America mortgage portfolio, partially offset by lower losses on asset sales.The selling of PPI by financial institutions in the U.K. has been the subject 
of intense review and focus by U.K. regulators and, more recently, the U.K. 
Supreme Court. For additional information on PPI, see ﬁCiti Holdingsﬂ in 
Citi™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 
filed with the SEC on March 3, 2014.PPI is designed to cover a customer™s loan repayments if certain events 
occur, such as long-term illness or unemployment. The U.K. Financial 

Conduct Authority (FCA) found certain problems across the industry with 
how these products were sold, including customers not realizing that the cost 
of PPI premiums was being added to their loan or PPI being unsuitable for 
the customer. Redress generally involves the repayment of premiums and 

the refund of all applicable contractual interest together with compensatory 
interest of 8%. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2014, the U.K. 
Supreme Court issued a ruling in a case (Plevin) involving PPI pursuant to 
which the court ruled, independent of the sale of the PPI contract, the PPI 
contract at issue in the case was ﬁunfairﬂ due to the high sales commissions 
earned and the lack of disclosure to the customer thereof.During the fourth quarter of 2015, the FCA issued a consultation paper that proposed (1) a deadline for PPI complaints (both non-Plevin and Plevin 
complaints) of two years after the effective date of the final rules; (2) an 
FCA-led customer communications campaign in advance of the deadline, 
with bank funding of the campaign; and (3) a failure to disclose a sales 
commission of 50% or more would be deemed unfair when assessing a new 
PPI complaint and require a customer refund of the difference between the 
commission paid and 50%, plus interest. Final rules are expected from the 
FCA in spring 2016.During 2015, Citi increased its PPI reserves by approximately $153 million ($65 million of which was recorded in Citi Holdings and 
$88 million of which was recorded in discontinued operations), including a 
$106 million reserve increase in the fourth quarter of 2015 ($39 million of 
which was recorded in Citi Holdings and $67 million of which was recorded 
in discontinued operations). The increase for full year 2015 compared to 
an increase of $118 million during 2014. While the overall level of claims 
generally remained unchanged in 2015, the increase in the reserves during 
2015, including in the fourth quarter of 2015, was due in part to the Plevin 
case and the guidelines set forth in the FCA™s consultation paper, including 

the proposed customer communications campaign.Citi™s year-end 2015 PPI reserve was $262 million (compared to 
$225 million as of December 31, 2014). Additional reserving actions, 
if any, in 2016 will largely depend on the timing of and response to 

the FCA™s final rules, including the level of customer response to any 

communications campaign.31Citigroup enters into various types of off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business. Citi™s involvement in these arrangements can 
take many different forms, including without limitation: purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in unconsolidated special purpose entities, such as credit card receivables and mortgage-
backed and other asset-backed securitization entities; holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited and general 
partnerships and equity interests in other unconsolidated special 
purpose entities;  providing guarantees, indemnifications, loan commitments, letters of 
credit and representations and warranties; and entering into operating leases for property and equipment.Citi enters into these arrangements for a variety of business purposes. For example, securitization arrangements offer investors access to specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization process. Securitization 
arrangements also assist Citi and Citi™s customers in monetizing their 

financial assets and securing financing at more favorable rates than Citi or 
the customers could otherwise obtain.The table below shows where a discussion of Citi™s various off-balance sheet arrangements may be found in this Form 10-K. In addition, see Notes 1, 22 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
˜˚˛˝˚˘
˘




˘

˘
˘
˘
32The following table includes information on Citigroup™s contractual obligations, as specified and aggregated pursuant to SEC requirements.Contractual obligations by yearIn millions of dollars€

…“—–––––––


−‡ˇ˛˚
‘š’

…⁄—‹††

…ƒ—
Total
$80,362$41,293$36,799$23,025$12,722$101,224$295,425
…“—˘

˘
›˘˚‡‡ˆ
˘
˙›˘˚‡‡ˆ
…⁄—˘
˙ˆˇ˘˚


˙ˆˇ˘˚
…ƒ—˘Other liabilities
›˚
˙ˆˇ˘˚˘

33Capital is used principally to support assets in Citi™s businesses and to absorb credit, market, and operational losses. Citi primarily generates 
capital through earnings from its operating businesses. Citi may augment 
its capital through issuances of common stock, noncumulative perpetual 
preferred stock and equity issued through awards under employee benefit 
plans, among other issuances. During 2015, Citi continued to raise capital 
through noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issuances amounting to 
approximately $6.3 billion, resulting in a total of approximately $16.7 billion 
outstanding as of December 31, 2015. In addition, during 2015, Citi returned a total of approximately $5.9 billion of capital to common shareholders in 
the form of share repurchases (approximately 101 million common shares) 
and dividends.Further, Citi™s capital levels may also be affected by changes in accounting 
and regulatory standards as well as the impact of future events on Citi™s 

business results, such as corporate and asset dispositions.Citigroup™s capital management framework is designed to ensure that 
Citigroup and its principal subsidiaries maintain sufficient capital consistent 
with each entity™s respective risk profile, management targets, and all 
applicable regulatory standards and guidelines. Citi assesses its capital 
adequacy against a series of internal quantitative capital goals, designed 
to evaluate the Company™s capital levels in expected and stressed economic 
environments. Underlying these internal quantitative capital goals are 
strategic capital considerations, centered on preserving and building 
financial strength. The Citigroup Capital Committee, with oversight from 
the Risk Management Committee of Citigroup™s Board of Directors, has 
responsibility for Citi™s aggregate capital structure, including the capital 
assessment and planning process, which is integrated into Citi™s capital 
plan. Balance sheet management, including oversight of capital adequacy, 
for Citigroup™s subsidiaries is governed by each entity™s Asset and Liability 
Committee. For additional information regarding Citi™s capital planning and 
stress testing exercises, see ﬁCapital Planning and Stress Testingﬂ below.Citi is subject to regulatory capital standards issued by the Federal Reserve 
Board which, commencing with 2014, constitute the U.S. Basel III 
rules. These rules establish an integrated capital adequacy framework, 
encompassing both risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratios.Risk-Based Capital Ratios
The U.S. Basel III rules set forth the composition of regulatory capital 
(including the application of regulatory capital adjustments and 
deductions), as well as two comprehensive methodologies (a Standardized 
Approach and Advanced Approaches) for measuring total risk-weighted 
assets. Total risk-weighted assets under the Advanced Approaches, which 
are primarily models based, include credit, market, and operational risk-
weighted assets. Conversely, the Standardized Approach excludes operational 
risk-weighted assets and generally applies prescribed supervisory risk weights 
to broad categories of credit risk exposures. As a result, credit risk-weighted 
assets calculated under the Advanced Approaches are more risk sensitive than 
those calculated under the Standardized Approach. Market risk-weighted 
assets are derived on a generally consistent basis under both approaches.The U.S. Basel III rules establish stated minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios for substantially all 

U.S. banking organizations, including Citi and Citibank, N.A. (Citibank). 
Moreover, these rules provide for both a fixed Capital Conservation Buffer 

and a discretionary Countercyclical Capital Buffer, which would be available 

to absorb losses in advance of any potential impairment of regulatory 
capital below the stated minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements. In 
December 2015, the Federal Reserve Board voted to affirm the Countercyclical 
Capital Buffer amount at the current level of 0%, and issued a proposed 
framework for implementing the Countercyclical Capital Buffer in the future. 
For additional information regarding the Federal Reserve Board™s proposed 

policy statement on the Countercyclical Capital Buffer, see ﬁRegulatory 

Capital Standards Developmentsﬂ below.
Further, the U.S. Basel III rules implement the ﬁcapital floor provisionﬂ 
of the so-called ﬁCollins Amendmentﬂ of the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires 
Advanced Approaches banking organizations, such as Citi and Citibank, to 
calculate each of the three risk-based capital ratios (Common Equity Tier 1 

Capital, Tier 1 Capital, and Total Capital) under both the Standardized 

Approach starting on January 1, 2015 (or, for 2014, prior to the effective date 

of the Standardized Approach, the Basel I credit risk and Basel II.5 market 
risk capital rules) and the Advanced Approaches and publicly report (as well 
as measure compliance against) the lower of each of the resulting risk-based 
capital ratios.34GSIB SurchargeIn August 2015, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule which imposes 
a risk-based capital surcharge upon U.S. bank holding companies that are 
identified as global systemically important bank holding companies (GSIBs), 
including Citi. The GSIB surcharge augments the Capital Conservation 
Buffer and, if invoked, any Countercyclical Capital Buffer, and would result 
in restrictions on earnings distributions (e.g., dividends, equity repurchases, 
and discretionary executive bonuses) should the expanded buffer be breached 
to absorb losses during periods of financial or economic stress, with the 
degree of such restrictions based upon the extent to which the expanded 
buffer is breached.Under the Federal Reserve Board™s final rule, identification of a GSIB 
would be based primarily on quantitative measurement indicators 
underlying five equally weighted broad categories of systemic importance: 
(i) size, (ii) interconnectedness, (iii) cross-jurisdictional activity, 

(iv) substitutability, and (v) complexity. With the exception of size, each 

of the other categories are comprised of multiple indicators also of equal 
weight, and amounting to 12 indicators in total.A U.S. bank holding company that is designated a GSIB under the established methodology will be required, on an annual basis, to calculate 
a surcharge using two methods and will be subject to the higher of the 
resulting two surcharges. The first method (ﬁmethod 1ﬂ) is based on the 
same five broad categories of systemic importance used to identify a GSIB. 
Under the second method (ﬁmethod 2ﬂ), the substitutability category is 
replaced with a quantitative measure intended to assess the extent of a GSIB™s 

reliance on short-term wholesale funding. Moreover, method 1 incorporates 

relative measures of systemic importance across certain global banking 
organizations and a year-end spot foreign exchange rate, whereas method 2 

uses fixed measures of systemic importance and application of an average 
foreign exchange rate over a three-year period. Generally, the surcharge 

derived under method 2 will result in a higher surcharge than derived 
under method 1.Should a GSIB™s systemic importance change year-over-year such that 
it becomes subject to a higher surcharge, the higher surcharge would not 
become effective for a full year (e.g., a higher surcharge calculated by 
December 31, 2016 would not become effective until January 1, 2018). 
However, if a GSIB™s systemic importance changes such that the GSIB would 

be subject to a lower surcharge, the GSIB would be subject to the lower 
surcharge beginning with the next calendar year (e.g., a lower surcharge 
calculated by December 31, 2016 would become effective January 1, 2017).GSIB surcharges under the final rule, which are required to be composed entirely of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, initially range from 1.0% to 

4.5% of total risk-weighted assets. Citi™s initial GSIB surcharge effective 

January 1, 2016, which is based primarily on 2014 quantitative measures 
of systemic importance (other than the short-term wholesale funding 
measure under method 2, based on 2015 data), is 3.5%. However, Citi™s 

ongoing efforts during 2015 in managing balance sheet efficiency has 
resulted in lower scores for substantially all of the quantitative measures of 
systemic importance, and consequently has reduced Citi™s estimated GSIB 

surcharge to 3%, also derived under method 2, which would become effective 
January 1, 2017.Transition Provisions
The U.S. Basel III rules contain several differing, largely multi-year 
transition provisions (i.e., ﬁphase-insﬂ and ﬁphase-outsﬂ) with respect to 
the stated minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Capital 
ratio requirements, substantially all regulatory capital adjustments and 
deductions, and non-qualifying Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital instruments (such 
as non-grandfathered trust preferred securities and certain subordinated 
debt issuances). Moreover, the GSIB surcharge will be introduced in parallel 
with the Capital Conservation Buffer and, if applicable, any Countercyclical 
Capital Buffer, commencing phase-in on January 1, 2016 and becoming fully 
effective on January 1, 2019. With the exception of the non-grandfathered 
trust preferred securities which do not fully phase-out until January 1, 2022 
and the capital buffers and GSIB surcharge which do not fully phase-in 
until January 1, 2019, all other transition provisions will be entirely reflected 
in Citi™s regulatory capital ratios by January 1, 2018. Citi considers all of 
these transition provisions as being fully implemented on January 1, 2019 
(full implementation), with the inclusion of the capital buffers and 
GSIB surcharge.The following chart sets forth the transitional progression to full implementation by January 1, 2019 of the regulatory capital components 
(i.e., inclusive of the mandatory 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer and 
the Countercyclical Capital Buffer at its current level of 0%, as well as an 
estimated 3% GSIB surcharge) comprising the effective minimum risk-based 
capital ratios.350%2%
4%
6%
8%10%
12%
14%1/1/191/1/181/1/171/1/161/1/151/1/14
Tier 2 Capital
Additional Tier 1 Capital
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
4%1.5%2.5%4.5%1.5%2%4.5%1.5%0.625%0.75%9.375%10.75%12.125%13.5%1.25%1.5%1.875%2.25%2.5%3%2%4.5%1.5%2%4.5%1.5%2%4.5%1.5%2%Total Capital ratio
(effective minimum)Capital Conservation Buffer
8% Total Capital ratio
(stated minimum)6% Tier 1 Capital ratio
(stated minimum)4.5% Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio

(stated minimum)Estimated GSIB surchargeThe following chart presents the transition arrangements (phase-in and phase-out) under the U.S. Basel III rules for significant regulatory capital adjustments and deductions relative to Citi.January 1
20142015201620172018
Phase-in of Significant Regulatory Capital Adjustments and Deductions
€
˘…“—ƒ†Ÿ‘†Ÿ’†Ÿ“††Ÿ
€
ƒ†Ÿ‘†Ÿ’†Ÿ“††Ÿ
€
’†Ÿ‘†Ÿƒ†Ÿ†Ÿ
“††Ÿ“††Ÿ“††Ÿ“††Ÿ“††Ÿ
Phase-out of Significant AOCI Regulatory Capital Adjustments

€
˘…ƒ—’†Ÿ‘†Ÿƒ†Ÿ†Ÿ
…“—˘€

…Š€
€˘

€



€˘
˘€

€
…⁄—˘€
€€˘
…ƒ—˘€


Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

36Tier 1 Leverage RatioUnder the U.S. Basel III rules, Citi, as with principally all U.S. banking 
organizations, is also required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 Leverage 
ratio of 4%. The Tier 1 Leverage ratio, a non-risk-based measure of capital 
adequacy, is defined as Tier 1 Capital as a percentage of quarterly adjusted 
average total assets less amounts deducted from Tier 1 Capital.Supplementary Leverage RatioAdvanced Approaches banking organizations are additionally required 
to calculate a Supplementary Leverage ratio, which significantly differs 
from the Tier 1 Leverage ratio by also including certain off-balance sheet 
exposures within the denominator of the ratio (Total Leverage Exposure). 
The Supplementary Leverage ratio represents end of period Tier 1 Capital 
to Total Leverage Exposure, with the latter defined as the sum of the daily 
average of on-balance sheet assets for the quarter and the average of certain 
off-balance sheet exposures calculated as of the last day of each month in 
the quarter, less applicable Tier 1 Capital deductions. Advanced Approaches 
banking organizations will be required to maintain a stated minimum 
Supplementary Leverage ratio of 3% commencing on January 1, 2018, but 
commenced publicly disclosing this ratio on January 1, 2015.Further, U.S. GSIBs, and their subsidiary insured depository institutions, 
including Citi and Citibank, are subject to enhanced Supplementary Leverage 
ratio standards. The enhanced Supplementary Leverage ratio standards 
establish a 2% leverage buffer for U.S. GSIBs in addition to the stated 3% 
minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio requirement in the U.S. Basel III 
rules. If a U.S. GSIB fails to exceed the 2% leverage buffer, it will be subject 

to increasingly onerous restrictions (depending upon the extent of the 
shortfall) regarding capital distributions and discretionary executive bonus 
payments. Accordingly, U.S. GSIBs are effectively subject to a 5% minimum 

Supplementary Leverage ratio requirement. Additionally, insured depository 

institution subsidiaries of U.S. GSIBs, such as Citibank, are required to 
maintain a Supplementary Leverage ratio of 6% to be considered ﬁwell 
capitalizedﬂ under the revised Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework 
established by the U.S. Basel III rules. Citi and Citibank are required to 
be compliant with these higher effective minimum ratio requirements on 
January 1, 2018.Prompt Corrective Action FrameworkThe U.S. Basel III rules revised the PCA regulations applicable to insured 
depository institutions in certain respects.In general, the PCA regulations direct the U.S. banking agencies to enforce increasingly strict limitations on the activities of insured depository 
institutions that fail to meet certain regulatory capital thresholds. The PCA 
framework contains five categories of capital adequacy as measured by 
risk-based capital and leverage ratios: (i) ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ; (ii) ﬁadequately 
capitalizedﬂ; (iii) ﬁundercapitalizedﬂ; (iv) ﬁsignificantly undercapitalizedﬂ; 
and (v) ﬁcritically undercapitalized.ﬂAccordingly, beginning January 1, 2015, an insured depository institution, 
such as Citibank, must maintain minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, 

Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital, and Tier 1 Leverage ratios of 6.5%, 8%, 10% and 

5%, respectively, to be considered ﬁwell capitalized.ﬂ Additionally, Advanced 

Approaches insured depository institutions, such as Citibank, must maintain 
a minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio of 6%, effective January 1, 2018, 
to be considered ﬁwell capitalized.ﬂCapital Planning and Stress Testing
Citi is subject to an annual assessment by the Federal Reserve Board as to 
whether Citi has effective capital planning processes as well as sufficient 
regulatory capital to absorb losses during stressful economic and financial 
conditions, while also meeting obligations to creditors and counterparties 
and continuing to serve as a credit intermediary. This annual assessment 
includes two related programs: The Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) evaluates Citi™s capital adequacy, capital adequacy process, and its planned capital 
distributions, such as dividend payments and common stock repurchases. 
As part of CCAR, the Federal Reserve Board assesses whether Citi has 
sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic 
and financial market stress and whether Citi has robust, forward-looking 
capital planning processes that account for its unique risks. The Federal 
Reserve Board may object to Citi™s annual capital plan based on either 
quantitative or qualitative grounds. If the Federal Reserve Board objects to 
Citi™s annual capital plan, Citi may not undertake any capital distribution 
unless the Federal Reserve Board indicates in writing that it does not 
object to the distribution.  Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing (DFAST) is a forward-looking quantitative 
evaluation of the impact of stressful economic and financial market 
conditions on Citi™s regulatory capital. This program serves to inform the 
Federal Reserve Board, the financial companies, and the general public, 
how Citi™s regulatory capital ratios might change using a hypothetical set 
of adverse economic conditions as designed by the Federal Reserve Board. 
In addition to the annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal 
Reserve Board, Citi is required to conduct annual company-run stress tests 
under the same three supervisory scenarios as well as conduct a mid-cycle 
stress test under company-developed scenarios.Both CCAR and DFAST include an estimate of projected revenues, losses, 
reserves, certain pro forma regulatory capital ratios (i.e., Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital, and Tier 1 Leverage ratios), and 
any other additional capital measures deemed relevant by Citi. Projections 
are required over a nine-quarter planning horizon under baseline conditions 
and under a range of stressed scenarios. All risk-based capital ratios reflect 
application of the Standardized Approach framework only and the transition 
arrangements under the U.S. Basel III rules.In November 2015, the Federal Reserve Board released a final rule, which for purposes of CCAR, adopted targeted amendments to its capital plan 
and stress test rules. Effective January 1, 2016, the final rule removed all 
requirements related to the Tier 1 Common Capital ratio (originally defined 

in conjunction with the 2009 Supervisory Capital Assessment Program), as 
it has effectively been replaced by the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio 

requirement subsequent to the implementation of the U.S. Basel III rules. 
Moreover, the final rule delayed the use of the Supplementary Leverage ratio 

until the 2017 capital planning cycle, and deferred the use of the Advanced 
Approaches framework indefinitely. For additional information regarding 

CCAR, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠRegulatory Risksﬂ below.
37Citigroup™s Capital Resources Under Current  Regulatory Standards
During 2015 and thereafter, Citi is required to maintain stated minimum 
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios of 
4.5%, 6% and 8%, respectively. The stated minimum Common Equity Tier 1 
Capital and Tier 1 Capital ratio requirements in 2014 were 4% and 5.5%, 
respectively, while the stated minimum Total Capital ratio requirement of 8% 
remained unchanged.Furthermore, to be ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ under current federal bank regulatory agency definitions, a bank holding company must have a Tier 1 

Capital ratio of at least 6%, a Total Capital ratio of at least 10%, and not be 

subject to a Federal Reserve Board directive to maintain higher capital levels.The following tables set forth the capital tiers, total risk-weighted assets, risk-based capital ratios, quarterly adjusted average total assets, Total 

Leverage Exposure and leverage ratios under current regulatory standards 
(reflecting Basel III Transition Arrangements) for Citi as of December
 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014.Citigroup Capital Components and Ratios Under Current Regulatory Standards (Basel III Transition Arrangements)December 31, 2015

˘…“—In millions of dollars, except ratios
Advanced  
ApproachesStandardized Approach˘
€
$173,862$173,862
––
€
176,420176,420

€€
…⁄—198,746211,115

€
1,190,8531,138,711

€
…ƒ—14.60%15.27%

€
…ƒ—14.8115.49€
…ƒ—16.6918.54In millions of dollars, except ratios
December 31, 2015

˘…“—›˘ž€
…‹—$1,732,933
–
€
…‘—2,326,072€
10.18%
7.58…“—˘€˘
˘
˘
…⁄—˘
€
€

˘
…ƒ—˘˘˘€˘€€
…‹—˘€

…‘—˘

As indicated in the table above, Citigroup™s capital ratios at December
 31, 2015 were in excess of the stated minimum requirements under the U.S. 
Basel III rules. In addition, Citi was also ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ under current 
federal bank regulatory agency definitions as of December 31, 2015. 38Components of Citigroup Capital Under Current Regulatory Standards (Basel III Advanced Approaches with Transition Arrangements)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
 2015˘
˘…“—Common Equity Tier 1 Capital

$205,286
–

369‹⁄šRegulatory Capital Adjustments and Deductions:


…⁄—…ƒ—(544)ƒ‘
…ƒ—(3,070)˘
…‹—(617)…š†š—
˚
…ƒ—…‘—176‹‘

21,980
…ƒ—1,434
…ƒ—318

…ƒ—…’—9,464˘
…ƒ—…’—…š—2,652€
€
…ƒ—ŠTotal Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
$173,862Additional Tier 1 Capital

$16,571
–
…“†—1,70712Regulatory Capital Adjustment and Deductions:


˚
…ƒ—…‘—265
…““—229
…ƒ—476˘Š€

…ƒ—…’—14,195
567•€
€
…ƒ—ŠTotal Additional Tier 1 Capital
$2,558
–•
Total Tier 1 Capital (Common Equity Tier 1 Capital + Additional Tier 1 Capital)
$176,420
–
Tier 2 Capital


…“⁄—$21,370
–
17
…“ƒ—1,163Regulatory Capital Adjustment and Deduction:

€
5•
…““—229Total Tier 2 Capital
$22,326
–
Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital)
$198,746
–
39Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Under Current Regulatory Standards (Basel III Advanced Approaches with Transition Arrangements)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
 2015˘
˘…“—…“‹—$791,036
–
74,817−‡ˇ˛˚
325,000Total Risk-Weighted Assets
$1,190,853
–
…“—˘˘
˘
˘˘›
˘
…⁄—˘
˘
˘
…ƒ—˘
€€
€
…‹—˘€

…‘—˘

€˘
˘
˘
…’—˘

˘˘˚


€€˘

˘˚›˘Š€

›

€˘
…š—˘
˘Š€˘
˘˘
…“†—˘
€˝˙ˆˇ˘
›˘

€›

˘
˘€
€
…““—˘
€€
˘
„˜

˘›
„˜€˘
…“⁄—˘

€›˘
…“ƒ—˘
€
˘
…“‹—˘


40Citigroup Capital Rollforward Under Current Regulatory Standards (Basel III Advanced Approaches with Transition Arrangements)In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended December 31, 2015
Twelve Months Ended 
December 31, 2015 
(1)Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
Balance, beginning of period
$173,345
$166,663
3,33517,242(415)(1,253)€
(1,650)(5,452)
3311,036
(796)(5,499)
˘…⁄—(453)(374)
˘…⁄—(34)(1,014)

111(120)
(248)825˘

130(559)44(131)

(146)(4,739)
312(675)€
€
Š8,082(4)(170)Net increase in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
$571
$7,199
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Balance, end of period
$173,862
$173,862
Additional Tier 1 Capital

Balance, beginning of period
$931
$Š
˘…ƒ—1,4956,227(9)(12)

165(42)66273

(218)4,706111(567)€
€
Š(8,082)1755Net increase in Additional Tier 1 Capital
$1,627
$2,558
Tier 1 Capital Balance, end of period
$176,420
$176,420
Tier 2 Capital
Balance, beginning of period
$21,353
$18,296

3493,984
606(14)1860Net increase in Tier 2 Capital
$973
$4,030
Tier 2 Capital Balance, end of period
$22,326
$22,326
Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital)
$198,746
$198,746
…“—˘€
˘
˘
˘

…⁄—˘
˘
…ƒ—˘

˘››˘
41Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Rollforward Under Current Regulatory Standards  (Basel III Advanced Approaches with Transition Arrangements)In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended December 31, 2015
Twelve Months Ended 
December 31, 2015
 (1)Total Risk-Weighted Assets, beginning of period
$1,229,667
$1,274,672
Changes in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets
(13,856)(26,399)˘…⁄—1,6681,682(935)(2,015)
(1,843)(2,563)1,1291,603
˘…ƒ—(3,119)(7,002)ž
˘…‹—(789)(4,418)˘…‘—(9,464)(27,793)
(1,585)(3,750)Net decrease in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets
$(28,794)
$(70,655)
Changes in Market Risk-Weighted Assets
˘…’—$(7,662)
$(21,041)

˘…š—(2,358)(4,623)Net decrease in Market Risk-Weighted Assets
$(10,020)
$(25,664)
Increase in Operational Risk-Weighted Assets
 (10)$Š
$12,500
Total Risk-Weighted Assets, end of period
$1,190,853
$1,190,853
…“—˘€
˘
˘
˘˘
˘›˘

…⁄—˘˘˘
˘

…ƒ—˘
˘

˘…‹—˘
˘
˘
…‘—˘

˘
˘
˘
‡‡ˆ˘
…’—˘˘

˘˘˜˜
…š—˘˘
˘˘„˜
˘˘…“†—˘−‡ˇ˛˚

42Capital Resources of Citigroup™s Subsidiary U.S. Depository Institutions Under Current Regulatory Standards
Citigroup™s subsidiary U.S. depository institutions are also subject to 
regulatory capital standards issued by their respective primary federal 
bank regulatory agencies, which are similar to the standards of the Federal 
Reserve Board.The following tables set forth the capital tiers, total risk-weighted assets, risk-based capital ratios, quarterly adjusted average total assets, 
Total Leverage Exposure and leverage ratios under current regulatory 

standards (reflecting Basel III Transition Arrangements) for Citibank, Citi™s 

primary subsidiary U.S. depository institution, as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014.Citibank Capital Components and Ratios Under Current Regulatory Standards (Basel III Transition Arrangements)December 31, 2015

˘…“—In millions of dollars, except ratios
Advanced 
ApproachesStandardized Approach€
$126,496$126,496
––
€
126,496126,496

€€
˘…⁄—137,935148,916

€
897,892998,181

€
˘…ƒ—14.09%12.67%
€
˘…ƒ—14.0912.67€
˘…ƒ—15.3614.92In millions of dollars, except ratios
December 31, 2015

˘…“—›˘ž€
˘…‹—$1,297,733
–
€
˘…‘—1,838,114€
9.75%
6.88…“—˘˘
˘

…⁄—˘
€
€

˘
…ƒ—˘˘€˘€€
˘
…‹—˘€
˘
…‘—˘
˘
As indicated in the table above, Citibank™s capital ratios at December
 31, 2015 were in excess of the stated minimum requirements under the U.S. 
Basel III rules. In addition, Citibank was also ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ as of 
December 31, 2015 under the revised PCA regulations which became effective January 1, 2015. Further, Citibank is required to conduct the annual Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test. The annual stress test consists of a forward looking quantitative 

evaluation of the impact of stressful economic and financial market 
conditions under several scenarios on Citibank™s regulatory capital. This 

program serves to inform the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) 
how Citibank™s regulatory capital ratios might change during a hypothetical 

set of adverse economic conditions and to ultimately evaluate the reliability 
of Citibank™s capital planning process.
43Impact of Changes on Citigroup and Citibank Capital Ratios Under Current Regulatory Capital Standards
The following tables present the estimated sensitivity of Citigroup™s and 
Citibank™s capital ratios to changes of $100 million in Common Equity 
Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital (numerator), and changes of 
$1 billion in Advanced Approaches and Standardized Approach risk-weighted 
assets, quarterly adjusted average total assets, as well as Total Leverage 
Exposure (denominator), under current regulatory capital standards 
(reflecting Basel III Transition Arrangements), as of December 31, 2015. This information is provided for the purpose of analyzing the impact that a 
change in Citigroup™s or Citibank™s financial position or results of operations 
could have on these ratios. These sensitivities only consider a single change 
to either a component of capital, risk-weighted assets, quarterly adjusted 
average total assets, or Total Leverage Exposure. Accordingly, an event that 
affects more than one factor may have a larger basis point impact than is 
reflected in these tables.Impact of Changes on Citigroup and Citibank Risk-Based Capital Ratios (Basel III Transition Arrangements)Common Equity  
Tier 1 Capital ratio
Tier 1 Capital ratio
Total Capital ratio
In basis pointsImpact of $100 million change in Common Equity  
Tier 1 
CapitalImpact of $1 billion change in risk-weighted assetsImpact of $100 million change in Tier 1 
CapitalImpact of $1 billion change in risk-weighted assetsImpact of $100 million change in Total 
CapitalImpact of $1 billion change in risk-weighted assetsCitigroup

Citibank


Impact of Changes on Citigroup and Citibank Leverage Ratios (Basel III Transition Arrangements)Tier 1 Leverage ratioSupplementary Leverage ratio
In basis pointsImpact of $100 million change in Tier 1 
CapitalImpact of $1 billion change in quarterly adjusted average total assetsImpact of$100 millionchange inTier 1 
CapitalImpact of $1 billion change in Total Leverage 
ExposureCitigroupCitibankCitigroup Broker-Dealer SubsidiariesAt December 31, 2015, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., a U.S. broker-dealer registered with the SEC that is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of 
Citigroup, had net capital, computed in accordance with the SEC™s net 
capital rule, of approximately $7.5 billion, which exceeded the minimum 
requirement by approximately $6.1 billion.Moreover, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, a broker-dealer registered 
with the United Kingdom™s Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) that is 

also an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup, had total capital of 
$17.4 billion at December 31, 2015, which exceeded the PRA™s minimum 

regulatory capital requirements.In addition, certain of Citi™s other broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject 
to regulation in the countries in which they do business, including 
requirements to maintain specified levels of net capital or its equivalent. 
Citigroup™s other broker-dealer subsidiaries were in compliance with their 

capital requirements at December 31, 2015.44Citigroup™s Capital Resources Under Basel III (Full Implementation)
Citi currently estimates that its effective minimum Common Equity Tier 1 
Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratio requirements under the U.S. 
Basel III rules, on a fully implemented basis and assuming a 3% GSIB 
surcharge, may be 10%, 11.5% and 13.5%, respectively. Further, under the U.S. Basel III rules, Citi must also comply with a 4% 
minimum Tier 1 Leverage ratio requirement and an effective 5% minimum 

Supplementary Leverage ratio requirement. The following tables set forth the capital tiers, total risk-weighted assets, risk-based capital ratios, quarterly adjusted average total assets, Total 

Leverage Exposure and leverage ratios, assuming full implementation 
under the U.S. Basel III rules, for Citi as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014.Citigroup Capital Components and Ratios Under Basel III (Full Implementation)December 31, 2015

…“—In millions of dollars, except ratios
Advanced 
ApproachesStandardized Approach€
$146,865$146,865
––
€
164,036164,036

€€
186,097198,655

€
1,216,2771,162,884

€
…⁄—…ƒ—12.07%12.63%

€
…⁄—…ƒ—13.4914.11
€
…⁄—…ƒ—15.3017.08
In millions of dollars, except ratios
December 31, 2015
˘
˘…“—›˘ž€
…‹—$1,724,710
–
€
…‘—2,317,849€
…ƒ—9.51%
…ƒ—7.08…“—˘
˘
€
€


…⁄—˘˘˘€˘€€
…ƒ—˘


…‹—˘€

…‘—˘

45Common Equity Tier 1 Capital RatioCiti™s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio was 12.07% at December 31, 2015, compared to 11.67% at September 30, 2015 and 10.57% at December 31, 2014 (all based on application of the Advanced Approaches for determining 
total risk-weighted assets). The quarter-over-quarter increase in the ratio was 
largely attributable to quarterly net income of $3.3 billion and a reduction 
in risk-weighted assets, partially offset by movements in AOCI as well as a 
$1.8 billion return of capital to common shareholders in the form of share 
repurchases and dividends. The increase in Citi™s Common Equity Tier 1 
Capital ratio from year-end 2014 reflected continued growth in Common 
Equity Tier 1 Capital resulting from net income of $17.2 billion and the 
favorable effects attributable to DTA utilization of approximately $1.5 billion, 
offset in part by the return of $5.9 billion of capital to common shareholders 
and movements in AOCI.46Components of Citigroup Capital Under Basel III (Advanced Approaches with Full Implementation)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
 2015˘
˘…“—Common Equity Tier 1 Capital

$205,286
–

145“‘‹Regulatory Capital Adjustments and Deductions:

˘
˘…⁄—(617)…š†š—
˘…ƒ—441

˘…‹—21,980
3,586
794š⁄‘
˘…‘—23,659
8,723Total Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
$146,865
–
Additional Tier 1 Capital

$16,571
–
˘…’—1,36531⁄‹Regulatory Capital Deductions:


˘…š—229
˘…“†—567•Total Additional Tier 1 Capital
$17,171
–
Total Tier 1 Capital (Common Equity Tier 1 Capital + Additional Tier 1 Capital)
$164,036
–
Tier 2 Capital


˘…““—$20,744
–
342⁄‹†41ƒ‘
˘…“⁄—1,163Regulatory Capital Deduction:


˘…š—229Total Tier 2 Capital
$22,061
–
Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital)
 (14)$186,097
–
…“—˘˘
˘
˘˘›
˘
…⁄—˘€

…ƒ—˘

€˘
…‹—˘
˘
…‘—˘

˘˘˚›˘
€˘
€˘˚›˘

›˘Š€

›€

˘
˘
˘Š€˘
˘
˛ˇˆ˚
˘˘
…’—˘˘
€˘
…š—˘
€€
…“†—˘
„˜
˛ˇˆ˚
˘›
˘„˜€˘
…““—˘
€˘
˘
€€˘
…“⁄—˘
€
˘
…“ƒ—˘€
€
47Citigroup Capital Rollforward Under Basel III (Advanced Approaches with Full Implementation)In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended December 31, 2015
Twelve Months Ended  
December 31, 2015
 (1)Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
Balance, beginning of period
$146,451
$136,597
3,33517,242(415)(1,253)€
(1,650)(5,452)
3311,036
(796)(5,499)
(1,131)(964)
(85)43

276(162)
(248)825
325787110142

(364)(33)
7283,576(2)(20)Net increase in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
$414
$10,268
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Balance, end of period
$146,865
$146,865
Additional Tier 1 Capital
Balance, beginning of period
$15,548
$11,469
˘…⁄—1,4956,227Š(4)111(567)1746Net increase in Additional Tier 1 Capital
$1,623
$5,702
Tier 1 Capital Balance, end of period
$164,036
$164,036
Tier 2 Capital
Balance, beginning of period
$21,097
$17,388

3494,650
606(14)937Net increase in Tier 2 Capital
$964
$4,673
Tier 2 Capital Balance, end of period
$22,061
$22,061
Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital)
$186,097
$186,097
…“—˘€
˘

˘

…⁄—˘

˘››˘
˘
48Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Under Basel III (Full Implementation) at December 31, 2015Advanced Approaches
Standardized ApproachIn millions of dollarsCiticorpCiti HoldingsTotalCiticorp
Citi HoldingsTotal
$736,641$79,819$816,460$1,015,070$72,629$1,087,699
70,7154,10274,81771,0294,15675,185
−‡ˇ˛˚
275,92149,079325,000ŠŠŠ
Total Risk-Weighted Assets
$1,083,277$133,000$1,216,277$1,086,099$76,785$1,162,884
Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Under Basel III (Full Implementation) at December 31, 2014 (1)Advanced Approaches
Standardized ApproachIn millions of dollarsCiticorpCiti HoldingsTotalCiticorp
Citi HoldingsTotal
––––––

−‡ˇ˛˚
•••
€
––––––
…“—˘˘
Total risk-weighted assets under both the Basel III Advanced Approaches 
and the Standardized Approach declined from year-end 2014 primarily due 
to a decrease in credit risk-weighted assets resulting from the impact of FX 
translation and the ongoing decline in Citi Holdings assets, as well as a 
decline in market risk-weighted assets. In addition, partially offsetting the 
decrease in total risk-weighted assets under the Advanced Approaches was 
an increase in operational risk-weighted assets reflecting an evaluation of 
ongoing events in the banking industry, as well as continued enhancements 

to Citi™s operational risk model.
49Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Rollforward (Basel III Advanced Approaches with Full Implementation)In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended  December 31, 2015Twelve Months Ended 
December 31, 2015 
(1)Total Risk-Weighted Assets, beginning of period
$1,254,473
$1,292,605
Changes in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets
(13,856)(26,399)…⁄—1,6681,682(935)(2,015)
(1,843)(2,563)1,1231,722
…ƒ—(3,119)(7,002)ž˘
…‹—(789)(4,418)…‘—(8,875)(20,845)
(1,550)(3,326)Net decrease in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets
$(28,176)
$(63,164)
Changes in Market Risk-Weighted Assets

…’—$(7,662)
$(21,041)

…š—(2,358)(4,623)Net decrease in Market Risk-Weighted Assets
$(10,020)
$(25,664)
Increase in Operational Risk-Weighted Assets 
(10)$Š
$12,500
Total Risk-Weighted Assets, end of period
$1,216,277
$1,216,277
…“—˘€
˘
˘
˘˘
˘›˘

…⁄—˘˘˘
˘

…ƒ—˘
˘

˘…‹—˘
˘
˘˘
…‘—˘

˘
˘
˘
‡‡ˆ˘
…’—˘˘

˘˘˜˜
…š—˘˘
˘˘„˜
˘˘…“†—˘−‡ˇ˛˚

50Supplementary Leverage RatioCitigroup™s Supplementary Leverage ratio was 7.08% for the fourth quarter 
of 2015, compared to 6.85% for the third quarter of 2015 and 5.94% for 
the fourth quarter of 2014. The growth in the ratio quarter-over-quarter 
was principally driven by an increase in Tier 1 Capital attributable largely 
to net income of $3.3 billion and a $1.5 billion noncumulative perpetual 
preferred stock issuance, as well as an overall reduction in Total Leverage 
Exposure resulting from reduced on-balance sheet assets and derivative 
exposures, partially offset by a $1.8 billion return of capital to common 
shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends. The growth in the ratio from the fourth quarter of 2014 was also principally driven by an 
increase in Tier 1 Capital attributable largely to net income of $17.2 billion 
and approximately $6.2 billion (net of issuance costs) of noncumulative 
perpetual preferred stock issuances, offset in part by the return of capital to 
common shareholders. Further, a decrease in Total Leverage Exposure also 
contributed to the growth in the ratio from the fourth quarter of 2014.The following table sets forth Citi™s Supplementary Leverage ratio 
and related components, assuming full implementation under the U.S. 
Basel III rules, for the three months ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014.Citigroup Basel III Supplementary Leverage Ratio and Related Components (Full Implementation)In millions of dollars, except ratios
December 31, 
2015˘
…“—Tier 1 Capital
$164,036
–
Total Leverage Exposure (TLE)
On-balance sheet assets (2)$1,784,248
–
Certain off-balance sheet exposures: 
(3)
206,128
…ƒ—76,923
…‹—25,939
58,699
225,450Total of certain off-balance sheet exposures
$593,139
–
˘€
59,538Total Leverage Exposure
$2,317,849
–
Supplementary Leverage ratio
7.08%…“—˘˘
˘›˘˚

…⁄—˘
˘
…ƒ—˘
˘
…‹—˘˘Citibank™s Supplementary Leverage ratio, assuming full implementation 
under the U.S. Basel III rules, was 6.65% for the fourth quarter of 2015, 
compared to 6.67% for the third quarter of 2015 and 6.20% for the fourth 
quarter of 2014. The ratio remained substantially unchanged from the third 
quarter of 2015 as the growth in Tier 1 Capital resulting primarily from 

quarterly net income and a $2.1 billion noncumulative perpetual preferred 
stock issuance was offset by cash dividends paid by Citibank to its parent, 
Citicorp, and which were subsequently remitted to Citigroup. The increase 
in the ratio from the fourth quarter of 2014 was principally driven by net 
income and DTA utilization, as well as an overall reduction in Total Leverage 

Exposure, partially offset by cash dividends paid by Citibank to its parent, 
Citicorp, and which were subsequently remitted to Citigroup.51Countercyclical Capital BufferIn December 2015, the Federal Reserve Board released a proposed policy 
statement on the framework that would be followed in setting the amount 
of the U.S. Countercyclical Capital Buffer for Advanced Approaches banking 
organizations. In accordance with the U.S. Basel III rules, the amount 
of the applicable Countercyclical Capital Buffer is equal to the weighted 
average of Countercyclical Capital Buffer amounts established by the Federal 
Reserve Board for the national jurisdictions where the Advanced Approaches 
banking organization has private sector credit exposures. As a result, the 
Countercyclical Capital Buffer may differ for each Advanced Approaches 
banking organization.The Federal Reserve Board™s proposed framework for setting the U.S. 
Countercyclical Capital Buffer encompasses a number of financial-system 
vulnerabilities, as well as a wide range of financial and macroeconomic 
quantitative indicators. However, given that no single indicator or fixed set 

of indicators can adequately capture all the key vulnerabilities in the U.S. 
economy and financial system, the types of indicators and models considered 
in assessments of the appropriate level of the Countercyclical Capital Buffer 
are likely to change over time.The Federal Reserve Board expects to consider the applicable level of the U.S. Countercyclical Capital Buffer at least once per year. An increase in the 

amount of the Countercyclical Capital Buffer for U.S.-based credit exposures 
would generally have an effective date 12 months after such determination, 
while a decrease in the amount of the Countercyclical Capital Buffer would 
generally become effective the day after such determination.Revisions to the Standardized Approach for Credit RiskIn December 2015, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel 
Committee) issued a second consultative document which proposes various 
revisions to the Standardized Approach in deriving credit risk-weighted 
assets. As proposed, the revised Standardized Approach seeks to balance risk 
sensitivity and complexity, and to promote comparability of credit risk-
weighted assets across banking organizations and jurisdictions.The proposal would, in part, revise the Standardized Approach in measuring credit risk-weighted assets with respect to certain on-balance sheet 
assets, such as in relation to the risk-weighting methodologies employed with 
respect to bank, corporate, and real estate (both residential and commercial) 
exposures; the treatment of off-balance sheet commitments; and aspects of 
the credit risk mitigation framework. Moreover, the proposal would permit 

the use of external credit ratings combined with due diligence requirements 
in the calculation of credit risk-weighted assets for exposures to banks and 
corporates, while also providing alternative approaches for jurisdictions that 
do not allow the use of external credit ratings for risk-based capital purposes, 
such as the U.S. Prior to finalizing the proposal, the Basel Committee will be 
conducting a comprehensive quantitative impact study so as to assist with 
assessing the risk-weighting calibration for each of the affected exposure 
classes, as well as will evaluate the appropriate implementation and 
transitional arrangements. The U.S. banking agencies have indicated that 
any changes to the U.S. Basel III rules as a result of the Basel Committee™s 

proposed revisions to the Standardized Approach would apply primarily to 
large, internationally active banking organizations.Revised Minimum Capital Requirements for Market Risk
In January 2016, the Basel Committee issued a final rule which sets forth 
a revised market risk capital framework, resulting from the so-called 
ﬁfundamental review of the trading bookﬂ and four quantitative impact 
studies over several years.The final rule establishes a revised boundary between the trading book and banking book which, in part, provides more prescriptive guidance as to 
qualifying trading book positions as well as imposes heightened restrictions 
and, in certain instances, additional capital charges, on the transfer of 
positions between the trading book and banking book. Moreover, the final 

rule also revises both the internal models approach and the standardized 
approach in certain respects. With regard to the internal models approach, 
the final rule introduces a more comprehensive model to measure market 
risk, provides for a more granular model approval process, and reduces the 
regulatory capital benefits of hedging activities and portfolio diversification. 
The final rule revises the standardized approach, in part, by calibrating it 
more closely to the internal models approach by increasing reliance on risk 
sensitivity inputs in the calculation of market risk capital requirements. 
The deadline for national jurisdictions to implement the revised market risk 
capital framework is January 1, 2019, with the effective date for banking 
organizations to begin reporting under the revised framework, subject to any 
required supervisory approvals, being December 31, 2019.If the U.S. banking agencies were to adopt the Basel Committee™s final 
rule unchanged, Citi believes its market risk-weighted assets could increase 
significantly. However, as set forth in the tables above, as of December 31, 

2015, Citi™s market risk-weighted assets constituted approximately 6% of its 

total risk-weighted assets. Accordingly, Citi currently believes that the overall 

impact to its total risk-weighted assets and thus its risk-based capital ratios 
would not be material. Nevertheless, the ultimate impact to Citi™s market 

risk-weighted assets and potentially its risk-based capital ratios is uncertain 
and is subject to several factors including, but not limited to, the U.S. 
banking agencies™ implementation of a final rule, potential changes in the 
scale and scope of future market risk model approvals as well as potential 
risk mitigation actions.52Tangible common equity (TCE), as currently defined by Citi, represents 
common equity less goodwill and other intangible assets (other than MSRs). 
Other companies may calculate TCE in a different manner. TCE and tangible 
book value per share are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes these 
capital metrics provide useful information, as they are used by investors and 
industry analysts.In millions of dollars or shares, except per share amounts
December 31, 
 2015˘
…“—Total Citigroup stockholders™ equity
$221,857
–

16,718Common equity$205,139
–
22,349
3,721
68Tangible common equity (TCE)
$179,001
–
Common shares outstanding (CSO)2,953.3Tangible book value per share (TCE/CSO)
$60.61
–
Book value per share (common equity/CSO)
$69.46
–
…“—˘˘
53The following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant risks and uncertainties that could impact 
Citi™s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Other 
risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to Citi or 
its management, could also negatively impact Citi™s businesses, results 
of operations and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be 
considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties Citi 
may face.Citi™s Inability to Enhance Its 2015 Resolution Plan 
Submission Could Subject It to More Stringent Capital, 
Leverage or Liquidity Requirements, or Restrictions on Its 
Growth, Activities or Operations, and Could Eventually 
Require Citi to Divest Assets or Operations.
Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to annually prepare and submit 
a plan to the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC for the orderly resolution 
of Citigroup (the bank holding company), and its significant legal entities, 
under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other applicable insolvency law in the 
event of future material financial distress or failure (Title I Resolution 
Plan). The Title I Resolution Plan requires significant effort, time and cost 
across all of Citi™s businesses and geographies, and is subject to review by the 
Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC.Under Title I, if the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC jointly determine 
that Citi™s 2015 Title I Resolution Plan is not ﬁcredibleﬂ (which, although not 

defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plan 
is feasible or would otherwise allow the regulators to resolve Citi in a way that 
protects systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption), 

or would not facilitate an orderly resolution of Citi under the U.S. Bankruptcy 
Code, and Citi fails to resubmit a resolution plan that remedies any identified 
deficiencies, Citi could be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or 
liquidity requirements, or restrictions on its growth, activities or operations. If 
within two years from the imposition of any requirements or restrictions Citi 
has still not remediated any identified deficiencies, then Citi could eventually 
be required to divest certain assets or operations. Any such restrictions or 
actions would negatively impact Citi™s reputation, market and investor 

perception, operations and strategy.
In August 2014, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC announced the completion of reviews of the 2013 Title I Resolution Plans submitted by Citi 

and 10 other financial institutions. The agencies identified shortcomings 
with the firms™ 2013 Title I Resolution Plans, including Citi™s. These 

shortcomings generally included (i) assumptions that the agencies regarded 
as unrealistic or inadequately supported, such as assumptions about the 
likely behavior of customers, counterparties, investors, central clearing 
facilities and regulators; and (ii) the failure to make, or identify, the kinds of 

changes in firm structure and practices that would be necessary to enhance 
the prospects for orderly resolution. Significantly, the FDIC determined that 

the 2013 Title I Resolution Plans submitted by the 11 institutions, including 
Citi, were ﬁnot credibleﬂ and did not facilitate an orderly resolution under the 
U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The Federal Reserve Board determined that the plans 
of the 11 institutions were required to take immediate action to improve 
their resolvability and reflect those improvements in their 2015 plans. At 
the same time, the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC indicated that if the 
identified shortcomings were not addressed in the 2015 Title I Resolution 

Plan submissions, the agencies expected to use their authority under Title I, 

as discussed above. Like other similarly-situated institutions, Citi submitted 
its 2015 Title I Resolution Plan on July 1, 2015 and the industry has not yet 

received a formal response from the regulators.Citi™s Ability to Return Capital to Shareholders Substantially Depends on the CCAR Process and the 
Results of Regulatory Stress Tests.
In addition to Board of Directors™ approval, any decision by Citi to return 
capital to shareholders, whether through an increase in its common stock 
dividend or through a share repurchase program, substantially depends 
on regulatory approval, including through the CCAR process required by 
the Federal Reserve Board and the supervisory stress tests required under 
the Dodd-Frank Act. In March 2014, the Federal Reserve Board announced 
that it objected to the capital plan submitted by Citi as part of the 2014 
CCAR process, meaning Citi was not able to increase its return of capital to 
shareholders as it had requested. Restrictions on Citi™s ability to return capital 
to shareholders as a result of the 2014 CCAR process negatively impacted 
market and investor perceptions of Citi, and continued restrictions could do 
so in the future.Citi™s ability to accurately predict or explain to stakeholders the outcome 
of the CCAR process, and thus address any such market or investor 
perceptions, is difficult as the Federal Reserve Board™s assessment of Citi is 

conducted not only by using the Board™s proprietary stress test models, but 

also a number of qualitative factors, including a detailed assessment of 
Citi™s ﬁcapital adequacy process,ﬂ as defined by the Federal Reserve Board. 

These qualitative factors were cited by the Federal Reserve Board in its 
objection to Citi™s 2014 capital plan, and the Board has stated that it expects 

leading capital adequacy practices will continue to evolve and will likely 
be determined by the Board each year as a result of its cross-firm review of 
capital plan submissions.Similarly, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that, as part of its stated 
goal to continually evolve its annual stress testing requirements, several 
parameters of the annual stress testing process may be altered from time to 
time, including the severity of the stress test scenario, Federal Reserve Board 
modeling of Citi™s balance sheet and the addition of components deemed 

important by the Federal Reserve Board (e.g., a counterparty failure). In 
addition, the Federal Reserve Board indicated that it may consider that some 
or all of Citi™s GSIB surcharge be integrated into its post-stress test minimum 

capital requirements. These parameter and other alterations could further 
increase the level of capital Citi must meet as part of the stress tests, thus 
potentially impacting the level of capital returns to shareholders.54Further, because it is not clear how the Federal Reserve Board™s proprietary 
stress test models may differ from the modeling techniques employed by Citi, it is possible that Citi™s stress test results (using its own models, estimation 

methodologies and processes) may not be consistent with those disclosed by 
the Federal Reserve Board, thus potentially leading to additional confusion 
and impacts to Citi™s perception in the market.
Citi, Its Management and Businesses Must Continually Review, Analyze and Successfully Adapt to Ongoing 
Regulatory Changes and Uncertainties in the U.S. 
and Globally.
Despite the adoption of final regulations in numerous areas impacting Citi 
and its businesses over the past several years, including final U.S. Basel III 
capital rules, certain derivatives reforms and restrictions on proprietary 
trading under the Volcker Rule, Citi, its management and businesses 
continually face ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties, both in the 
U.S. and globally.While the areas of ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties facing Citi are too numerous to list completely, various examples include, 

but are not limited to: (i) limits on the level of credit risk Citi may have 
against certain counterparties; (ii) potential changes to various aspects 
of the regulatory capital framework applicable to Citi (see ﬁCapital 
ResourcesŠRegulatory Capital Standards Developmentsﬂ above); 
(iii) financial transaction taxes and/or other types of increased fees on 
financial institutions; (iv) international versions of the Volcker Rule and 

bank structural reforms; (v) whether and to what extent the European 
Union and CFTC will render any ﬁequivalencyﬂ determinations or regulatory 
acknowledgment of the equivalency of derivatives regimes; (vi) U.S. and 
international requirements relating to sanctions against Russia, Iran and 
other countries; and (vii) the U.S. banking agencies™ rules relating to the 
net stable funding ratio, or NSFR (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠLiquidity 
Riskﬂ below). There may also be regulatory changes not yet contemplated, 
or changes that have been proposed which could take a dramatically 
different form upon finalization.Moreover, certain recent regulatory changes, while final, remain in the 
implementation period, and it remains uncertain what ultimate impact 
such changes will have on Citi™s businesses, results of operations or financial 

condition. For example, in October and December 2015, the U.S. banking 
regulators and CFTC, respectively, adopted final rules relating to margin 

requirements for uncleared swaps. The final rules, which have a three-year 
phase-in period beginning on September 1, 2016, will require Citi to both 
collect and post margin to counterparties, as well as collect and post margin 
to certain of its affiliates, in connection with any uncleared swap, with the 
initial margin required to be held by unaffiliated third-party custodians. 
While Citi continues to work through the implications of the final rules, it 
is likely these requirements will significantly increase the cost to Citi and its 
counterparties of conducting uncleared swaps and impact its current inter-

affiliate swap practices (e.g., require clearing of more inter-affiliate swaps 

and/or enter into risk management swaps with third parties).Ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties make Citi™s and its 
management™s long-term business, balance sheet and budget planning 

difficult or subject to change, and can negatively impact Citi™s results of 

operations, financial condition and, potentially, its strategy or organizational 

structure. In addition, in many cases, business planning is required to 
be based on possible or proposed rules, requirements or outcomes and 
is further complicated by management™s continual need to review and 

evaluate the impact on Citi™s businesses of ongoing rule proposals, final 

rules and implementation guidance from numerous regulatory bodies 
worldwide, which such guidance can change. Moreover, in many instances 

U.S. and international regulatory initiatives have not been undertaken or 
implemented on a coordinated basis, and areas of divergence have developed 
with respect to the scope, interpretation, timing, structure or approach, 
leading to inconsistent or even conflicting regulations, including within a 
single jurisdiction. Regulatory changes have also significantly increased 
Citi™s compliance risks and costs (see ﬁCompliance, Conduct and Legal 

Risksﬂ below).Citi™s Results of Operations Could Be Negatively Impacted 
as Its Revolving Home Equity Lines of Credit Continue 
to ﬁReset.ﬂ
As of December 31, 2015, Citi™s home equity loan portfolio included 
approximately $12.3 billion of home equity lines of credit that were still 
within their revolving period and had not commenced amortization, or 
ﬁresetﬂ (Revolving HELOCs). Of these Revolving HELOCs, approximately 
66% will commence amortization during 2016 and 2017 (for additional 
information, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCredit RiskŠConsumer 
Creditﬂ below).Before commencing amortization, Revolving HELOC borrowers are required to pay only interest on their loans. Upon amortization, these 
borrowers are required to pay both interest, usually at a variable rate, and 
principal that typically amortizes over 20 years, rather than the typical 
30-year amortization. As a result, Citi™s customers with Revolving HELOCs 

that reset could experience ﬁpayment shockﬂ due to the higher required 
payments on the loans. Increases in interest rates could further increase 
these payments, given the variable nature of the interest rates on these 
loans post-reset.Citi has experienced a higher 30+ days past due delinquency rate on its amortizing home equity loans as compared to its total outstanding 
home equity loan portfolio (amortizing and non-amortizing). Moreover, 

resets to date have generally occurred during a period of historically low 
interest rates, which Citi believes has likely reduced the overall payment 
shock to borrowers. While Citi continues to monitor this reset risk closely 
and will continue to consider any potential impact in determining its 
allowance for loan loss reserves, as well as review and take additional 
actions to offset potential reset risk, increasing interest rates, stricter 
lending criteria and high borrower loan-to-value positions could limit 55Citi™s ability to reduce or mitigate this reset risk going forward. Accordingly, 
as these loans further reset during 2016 and 2017, Citi could continue to 
experience higher delinquency rates as well as increased loan loss reserves 
and net credit losses in future periods, which could negatively impact its 
results of operations.Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Challenges Globally Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi™s Businesses and 
Results of Operations.
Citi has experienced, and could experience in the future, negative impacts 
to its businesses and results of operations as a result of macroeconomic and 
geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatility.Energy and other commodity prices significantly deteriorated during the second half of 2015 and into 2016, which has impacted various financial 
markets, countries and industries. Global economic growth remains uneven 
and uncertain. Various regions or countries, including certain emerging 

markets, have experienced slower or no growth and volatility, whether due 

to macroeconomic conditions or geopolitical tensions, governmental or 
regulatory policies or economic conditions within the particular region or 
country. For example, the economic and fiscal situations of several European 

countries remain fragile, and geopolitical tensions throughout the region, 
including in Russia and the Middle East, have added to the uncertainties. 
While concerns relating to sovereign defaults or a partial or complete 
break-up of the European Monetary Union (EMU), including potential 
accompanying redenomination risks and uncertainties, seemed to have 
abated somewhat in recent years, concerns and uncertainties have surfaced 
in Europe over the potential exit of the United Kingdom from the European 
Union in 2016. In addition, governmental fiscal and monetary actions, or 
expected actions, have impacted the volatilities of global financial markets 
and foreign exchange rates.These and other global macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatilities have impacted, and could continue to 
negatively impact, Citi™s businesses, results of operations and financial 

condition, including its credit costs, revenues in its Markets and securities services and other businesses, and AOCI (which can in turn negatively 
impact Citi™s book and tangible book value). Further, if the economic 

situation in a non-U.S. jurisdiction where Citi operates were to deteriorate 
below a certain level, U.S. regulators can and have imposed mandatory loan 
loss and other reserve requirements on Citi, which could negatively impact its 
cost of credit and earnings, perhaps significantly.
Citi™s Significant Presence in the Emerging Markets Subjects It to Various Risks as well as Increased Compliance and 
Regulatory Risks and Costs.
During 2015, emerging markets revenues accounted for approximately 41% 
of Citi™s total revenues (for additional information on how Citi defines the 
emerging markets as well as its exposures in certain of these markets, see 
ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCountry Riskﬂ below).Citi™s significant presence in the emerging markets subjects it to a number 
of risks, including sovereign volatility, political events, foreign exchange 
controls, limitations on foreign investment, sociopolitical instability 
(including from hyper-inflation), fraud, nationalization or loss of licenses, 

business restrictions, sanctions or asset freezes, potential criminal charges, 
closure of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of assets. For example, 
Citi operates in several countries that have, or have had in the recent past, 
strict foreign exchange controls, such as Argentina and Venezuela, that 

limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/or transfer 
funds outside the country. Citi has also previously discovered fraud in certain 

emerging markets in which it operates in prior years. Political turmoil 
and other instability have occurred in certain countries, such as in Russia, 
Ukraine and the Middle East, which have required management time and 
attention (e.g., monitoring the impact of sanctions on the Russian economy 
as well as Citi™s businesses and results of operations).
Citi™s emerging markets presence also increases its compliance and 
regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi™s operations in emerging 

markets, including facilitating cross-border transactions on behalf of its 
clients, subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations primarily 
focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such as anti-money-
laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks 
can be more acute in less developed markets and thus require substantial 
investment in compliance infrastructure or could result in a reduction 
in certain of Citi™s business activities. Any failure by Citi to comply with 

applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the countries and 
markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, could result in 
fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, any of which could 
negatively impact Citi™s results of operations and its reputation.
Concentrations of Risk Can Increase the Potential for Citi to Incur Significant Losses.
Concentrations of risk, particularly credit and market risk, can increase Citi™s 
risk of significant losses. As of December 31, 2015, Citi™s most significant 
concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies, 
which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued by the 
U.S. government and its agencies (for additional information, see Note 24 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements). Citi also routinely executes a high 
volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange transactions 
with counterparties in the financial services industry, including banks, 
insurance companies, investment banks, government and central banks and 
other financial institutions. To the extent regulatory or market developments 
lead to increased centralization of trading activity through particular 
clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, this could also increase Citi™s 
concentration of risk in this industry. Concentrations of risk can limit, and 
have limited, the effectiveness of Citi™s hedging strategies and have caused 
Citi to incur significant losses, and they may do so again in the future.56The Federal Reserve Board™s Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity Proposal Includes Uncertainties and Potential Operational 
Difficulties That Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi™s 
Funding and Liquidity, Costs of Funds and Results 
of Operations.
Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act grants the FDIC the authority, under certain 
circumstances, to resolve systemically important financial institutions, 
including Citi. The FDIC has released a notice describing its preferred ﬁsingle 
point of entry strategyﬂ for such resolution, pursuant to which, generally, 
a bank holding company would be placed in receivership, the unsecured 
long-term debt of the holding company would bear losses and the operating 
subsidiaries would be recapitalized.Consistent with this strategy, in November 2015, the Federal Reserve Board 
issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to require GSIBs, including Citi, to 
(i) issue and maintain minimum levels of external ﬁtotal loss-absorbing 
capacityﬂ (TLAC) and long-term debt (LTD), and (ii) adhere to various 

ﬁclean holding companyﬂ requirements at the bank holding company level, 
including a prohibition on third-party short-term borrowings, derivatives and 
other qualified financial contracts and certain guarantees, as well as a limit 
on other non-TLAC eligible liabilities, such as structured notes and other 
operating liabilities. While not included in its proposed requirements, the 
Federal Reserve Board also indicated it was considering additional domestic 
internal TLAC requirements for U.S. GSIBs which could require, among 
other things, the ﬁpre-positioningﬂ of specified amounts of TLAC to certain 
material subsidiaries of the bank holding company (for a summary of the 
TLAC proposal, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠLiquidity Riskﬂ below).There are significant uncertainties and interpretive issues arising from the Federal Reserve Board™s proposal. With respect to the minimum 

external LTD and TLAC requirements, the proposal would disqualify from 

eligible LTD securities that permit acceleration for reasons other than 

insolvency or non-payment of principal or interest as well as securities not 
governed by U.S. law. Consistent with industry standards, the vast majority 

of Citi™s otherwise eligible outstanding LTD provides for acceleration in 

circumstances other than those permitted by the proposal. Additionally, Citi 

has outstanding a significant amount of LTD not governed by U.S. law but 

which would otherwise be eligible to count towards the minimum external 
LTD requirement. Accordingly, if the requirements are adopted as proposed, 

and no ﬁgrandfatheringﬂ of existing outstanding LTD is provided, Citi could 

be required to refinance or issue significant amounts of additional debt, 
simultaneously with other GSIBs impacted by the requirements. Further, such 

ineligible debt securities would count against the limit imposed on non-TLAC 
liabilities imposed under the clean holding company requirements of the 
proposal, likely resulting in the need to repurchase significant amounts of 
Citi™s outstanding debt in order not to be in breach of such limitations. Any 

of these actions could negatively and significantly impact Citi™s funding and 

liquidity management and planning, operations and costs of funds.The clean holding company requirements pose additional operational challenges and uncertainties. Citi, like many bank holding companies, often 
guarantees the obligations of its subsidiaries, which guarantees include a 
default right linked to the insolvency of Citi (i.e., downstream guarantees 
with cross-default provisions). With no grandfathering of such guarantees 
contemplated by the proposal, restructuring, revising or replacing the 
extensive number of guarantees outstanding in order to meet the clean 
holding company requirements could be costly and expose Citi to legal risk. 
Further, the potential consequences of breaching the proposed clean holding 

company requirements, as well as the consequences of not meeting many of 
the other requirements in the Federal Reserve Board™s proposal, are not clear, 

including what would be required to cure and the timeframe to do so.In addition, any requirement to pre-position TLAC-eligible instruments with material subsidiaries could result in additional funding inefficiencies, 
increase Citi™s overall minimum TLAC requirements by reducing the 

fungibility of its funding sources and require certain of Citi™s subsidiaries 

to replace lower cost funding with other higher cost funding, which would 
further impede Citi™s funding and liquidity management and planning, costs 

of funds and results of operations.The Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity and Funding Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside 
of Citi™s Control, Such as Market Disruptions and Increases 
in Citi™s Credit Spreads.
As a global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding 
are essential to Citi™s businesses. Citi™s liquidity and sources of funding can 
be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such 
as general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental fiscal and 
monetary policies, regulatory changes or negative investor perceptions of 
Citi™s creditworthiness.In addition, Citi™s cost and ability to obtain deposits, secured funding 
and long-term unsecured funding are directly related to its credit spreads. 
Changes in credit spreads constantly occur and are market driven, including 
both external market factors and factors specific to Citi, and can be highly 
volatile. Citi™s credit spreads may also be influenced by movements in the 

costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to Citi™s long-term debt, 

which are also impacted by these external and Citi-specific factors. Moreover, 

Citi™s ability to obtain funding may be impaired if other market participants 

are seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market appetite is 
reduced, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. In addition, 
clearing organizations, regulators, clients and financial institutions with 
which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require additional collateral 
based on these market perceptions or market conditions, which could further 
impair Citi™s access to and cost of funding.
As a holding company, Citi relies on dividends, distributions and other 
payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt 
and other obligations. Several of Citi™s U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are 

or may be subject to capital adequacy or other regulatory or contractual 
restrictions on their ability to provide such payments, including any local 
regulatory stress test requirements or potential domestic internal TLAC 
requirements (as discussed above). Limitations on the payments that Citi 
receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity.
57The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Credit Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, 
and Ratings Downgrades Could Have a Negative Impact 
on Citi™s Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding 
Capacity and Increased Funding Costs, Including 
Derivatives Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations 
or Collateral Requirements.
The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody™s and S&P, continuously 
evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries, and their ratings of Citi and 
its more significant subsidiaries™ long-term/senior debt and short-term/
commercial paper, as applicable, are based on a number of factors, including 

standalone financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within the 
control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies™ proprietary rating 
agency methodologies and assumptions and conditions affecting the 
financial services industry and markets generally.Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. Ratings downgrades could negatively impact Citi™s ability 

to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as well as the costs of 
those funds, and its ability to maintain certain deposits. A ratings downgrade 
could also have a negative impact on Citi™s funding and liquidity due to 

reduced funding capacity, including derivative triggers, which could take the 

form of cash obligations and collateral requirements. In addition, a ratings 
downgrade could also have a negative impact on other funding sources, 
such as secured financing and other margined transactions for which there 
are no explicit triggers, as well as on contractual provisions, which contain 
minimum ratings thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds.Moreover, credit ratings downgrades can have impacts, which may 
not be currently known to Citi or which are not possible to quantify. For 

example, some entities may have ratings limitations as to their permissible 
counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. In addition, certain 
of Citi™s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, 

could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading 
of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings 
downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact 
not only Citi™s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of 

certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of 
a reduction in Citi™s or Citibank, N.A.™s credit ratings, see ﬁManaging Global 

RiskŠLiquidity Riskﬂ below.
Citi Has Co-Branding and Private Label Credit Card 
Relationships with Various Retailers and Merchants and 
the Failure to Maintain These Relationships or the Renewal 
of These Relationships on Less Favorable Terms Could 
Have a Negative Impact on Citi™s Results of Operations 
or Financial Condition.
Through its Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services credit card businesses, 
Citi has co-branding and private label relationships with various retailers 
and merchants globally in the ordinary course of business whereby Citi issues 
credit cards to customers of the retailers or merchants. Citi™s co-branding and 
private label agreements provide for shared economics between the parties 
and generally have a fixed term. The five largest relationships constituted 
an aggregate of approximately 10% of Citi™s revenues for the year ended 
December 31, 2015.Competition among card issuers, including Citi, for these relationships is significant. As a result, Citi may not be able to renew these relationships, 
or the relationships may be renewed on terms substantially less favorable 
to Citi™s credit card businesses. These relationships could also be negatively 

impacted due to, among other things, operational difficulties of the retailer 
or merchant, termination due to a breach by Citi, the retailer or merchant of 
its responsibilities, or external factors, including bankruptcies, liquidations, 
restructurings, consolidations and other similar events. While various 
mitigating factors could be available to Citi if any of these events were to 
occur Š such as by replacing the retailer or merchant or offering new card 
products Š such events could negatively impact Citi™s results of operations 

or financial condition.Citi™s Operational Systems and Networks Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Subject to an Increasing Risk of 
Continually Evolving Cybersecurity or Other Technological 
Risks Which Could Result in the Theft, Loss, Misuse or 
Disclosure of Confidential Client or Customer Information, 
Damage to Citi™s Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, 
Regulatory Penalties, Legal Exposure and Financial Losses.
A significant portion of Citi™s operations relies heavily on the secure 
processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information 
as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on 
a minute-by-minute basis. For example, through its Global Consumer Banking, credit card and securities services businesses, Citi obtains and 
stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information 
for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must 
accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. With the 
evolving proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the 
Internet and mobile devices to conduct financial transactions, large, global 
financial institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject 
to an increasing risk of cyber incidents from these activities.Citi™s computer systems, software and networks are subject to ongoing 
cyber incidents such as unauthorized access; loss or destruction of 
data (including confidential client information); account takeovers; 58unavailability of service; computer viruses or other malicious code; cyber attacks; and other events. These threats arise from numerous sources, not all 
of which are in Citi™s control, including among others human error, fraud 

or malice on the part of employees or third parties, accidental technological 
failure, electrical or telecommunication outages, failures of computer 
servers or other damage to Citi™s property or assets, natural disasters or 

severe weather conditions, health emergencies or pandemics, or outbreaks of 
hostilities or terrorist acts.Additional challenges are posed by external parties, including extremist parties and certain foreign state actors that engage in cyber activities as 
a means to promote political ends. As further evidence of the increasing 
and potentially significant impact of cyber incidents, during 2015, the 
U.S. government as well as several multinational companies reported 
cyber incidents affecting their computer systems that resulted in the data 
of millions of customers and employees being compromised. In addition, 
in recent years several U.S. retailers and financial institutions and other 
multinational companies reported cyber incidents that compromised 
customer data.While Citi has not been materially impacted by these reported or other cyber incidents, Citi has been subject to other intentional cyber incidents 
from external sources over the last several years, including (i) denial of 
service attacks, which attempted to interrupt service to clients and customers; 
(ii) data breaches, which obtained unauthorized access to customer account 
data; and (iii) malicious software attacks on client systems, which attempted 
to allow unauthorized entrance to Citi™s systems under the guise of a client 

and the extraction of client data. While Citi™s monitoring and protection 

services were able to detect and respond to the incidents targeting its systems 
before they became significant, they still resulted in limited losses in some 
instances as well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat 
of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such cyber 
incidents will not occur again, and they could occur more frequently and on 
a more significant scale.Although Citi devotes significant resources to implement, maintain, monitor and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures 
such as intrusion detection and prevention and firewalls to safeguard 
critical business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures 
or any other measures can provide absolute security. In addition, because 

the methods used to cause cyber attacks change frequently or, in some 

cases, are not recognized until launched, Citi may be unable to implement 
effective preventive measures or proactively address these methods until they 
are discovered.If Citi were to be subject to a cyber incident, it could result in the disclosure of personal, confidential or proprietary client information, damage 
to Citi™s reputation with its clients and the market, customer dissatisfaction, 

additional costs to Citi (such as repairing systems, replacing customer 
payment cards or adding new personnel or protection technologies), 
regulatory penalties, exposure to litigation and other financial losses to both Citi and its clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions 
or malfunctions in the operations of Citi (such as the lack of availability of 
Citi™s online banking system or mobile banking platform), as well as the 

operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. Given Citi™s global 

footprint and the high volume of transactions processed by Citi, certain errors 
or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and 
rectified, which would further increase these costs and consequences.Third parties with which Citi does business, as well as retailers and other third parties with which Citi™s customers do business, may also be sources 

of cybersecurity or other operational and technological risks, particularly 
where activities of customers are beyond Citi™s security and control systems. 

Citi outsources certain functions, such as processing customer credit card 
transactions, uploading content on customer-facing websites, and developing 

software for new products and services. These relationships allow for the 
storage and processing of customer information by third-party hosting of or 
access to Citi websites, which could result in service disruptions or website 
defacements, a risk the confidentiality, privacy and security of data held by 

third parties may be compromised and the potential to introduce vulnerable 
code, resulting in security breaches impacting Citi customers. While Citi 
engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, 
such as performing onsite security control assessments and limiting third-
party access to the least privileged level necessary to perform job functions, 
ongoing threats may result in unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data 
or other cyber incidents with increased costs and consequences to Citi such 
as those discussed above. Furthermore, because financial institutions are 
becoming increasingly interconnected with central agents, exchanges and 
clearing houses, including as a result of the derivatives reforms over the last 
few years, Citi has increased exposure to operational failure or cyber attacks 
through third parties.While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms 
and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain 
aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover 
all losses.Citi™s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi™s Regulatory 
Capital, Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate 
U.S. Taxable Income.
At December 31, 2015, Citi™s net DTAs were approximately $47.8 billion, 
of which approximately $31.0 billion was excluded from Citi™s Common 
Equity Tier 1 Capital, on a fully implemented basis, under the U.S. Basel III 
rules (for additional information, see ﬁCapital ResourcesŠComponents 
of Citigroup Capital Under Basel III (Advanced Approaches with Full 
Implementation)ﬂ above). In addition, of the net DTAs as of year-end 2015, 
approximately $15.9 billion related to foreign tax credit carry-forwards 
(FTCs). The carry-forward utilization period for FTCs is 10 years and 
represents the most time-sensitive component of Citi™s DTAs. Of the FTCs at 
year-end 2015, approximately $4.8 billion expire in 2018 and the remaining 
$11.1 billion expire over the period of 2019-2025. Citi must utilize any FTCs 
generated in the then-current year tax return prior to utilizing any carry-
forward FTCs.59The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, including FTCs, is 
complex and requires significant judgment and estimates regarding future taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available 

tax planning strategies. Citi™s ability to utilize its DTAs, including the 

FTC components, and thus use the capital supporting the DTAs for more 

productive purposes, will be dependent upon Citi™s ability to generate U.S. 

taxable income in the relevant tax carry-forward periods. Failure to realize 
any portion of the DTAs would also have a corresponding negative impact on 

Citi™s net income.
In addition, with regard to FTCs, utilization will be influenced by actions to optimize U.S. taxable earnings for the purpose of consuming the 
FTC carry-forward component of the DTAs prior to expiration. These FTC 

actions, however, may serve to increase the DTAs for other less time sensitive 

components. Moreover, tax return limitations on FTCs and general business 

credits that cause Citi to incur current tax expense, notwithstanding its tax 
carry-forward position, could impact the rate of overall DTA utilization. DTA 

utilization will also continue to be driven by movements in Citi™s AOCI, which 

can be impacted by changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.For additional information on Citi™s DTAs, including the FTCs, see 
ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant EstimatesŠIncome Taxesﬂ 

below and Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citi™s Interpretation or Application of the Extensive Tax Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of the 
Relevant Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in 
the Payment of Additional Taxes, Penalties or Interest.
Citi is subject to the various tax laws of the U.S. and its states and 
municipalities, as well as the numerous foreign jurisdictions in which 
it operates. These tax laws are inherently complex and Citi must make 
judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws to its 
entities, operations and businesses. Citi™s interpretations and application 
of the tax laws, including with respect to withholding tax obligations and 
stamp and other transactional taxes, could differ from that of the relevant 
governmental taxing authority, which could result in the potential for the 
payment of additional taxes, penalties or interest, which could be material.The Value of Citi™s DTAs Could Be Significantly Reduced if Corporate Tax Rates in the U.S. or Certain State, Local 
or Foreign Jurisdictions Decline or as a Result of Other 
Changes in the U.S. Corporate Tax System.
There have been discussions regarding decreasing the U.S. federal corporate 
tax rate. Similar discussions have taken place in certain local, state and 
foreign jurisdictions. While Citi may benefit in some respects from any 
decrease in corporate tax rates, a reduction in the U.S. federal, or state, local 
or foreign corporate tax rates could result in a decrease, perhaps significant, 
in the value of Citi™s DTAs, which would result in a reduction to Citi™s net 
income during the period in which the change is enacted. There have also 
been recent discussions of more sweeping changes to the U.S. tax system. It 
is uncertain whether or when any such tax reform proposals will be enacted 
into law, and whether or how they will affect Citi™s DTAs.If Citi™s Risk Models Are Ineffective or Require Modification 
or Enhancement, Citi Could Incur Significant Losses 
or Its Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios Could Be 
Negatively Impacted.
Citi utilizes models extensively as part of its risk management and mitigation 
strategies, including in analyzing and monitoring the various risks Citi 
assumes in conducting its activities. For example, Citi uses models as part of 
its various stress testing initiatives across the firm. Management of these risks 
is made even more challenging within a global financial institution such as 
Citi, particularly given the complex, diverse and rapidly changing financial 
markets and conditions in which Citi operates.These models and strategies are inherently limited because they involve techniques, including the use of historical data in many circumstances, and 
judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome 
in the markets in which Citi operates, nor can they anticipate the specifics 
and timing of such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses if its risk 
management models or strategies are ineffective in properly anticipating or 
managing these risks.Moreover, Citi™s Basel III regulatory capital models, including its 
credit, market and operational risk models, continue to be subject to 
ongoing regulatory review and approval, which may result in refinements, 
modifications or enhancements (required or otherwise) to these models. 
Modifications or requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews, as well 
as any future changes or guidance provided by the U.S. banking agencies 
regarding the regulatory capital framework applicable to Citi, have resulted 
in, and could continue to result in, significant changes to Citi™s risk-weighted 

assets, total leverage exposure or other components of Citi™s capital ratios. 

These changes can negatively impact Citi™s capital ratios and its ability to 

achieve its regulatory capital requirements as it projects or as required.Citi Must Continually Pursue Expense Management and Its Investments in Its Businesses May Not Be as Successful as 
Citi Projects or Expects.
Citi continues to pursue its disciplined expense management strategy, 
including ongoing repositioning and efficiency targets. However, there is no 
guarantee that Citi will be able to maintain or reduce its level of expenses 
as a result of its repositioning actions, efficiency initiatives or otherwise. 
Moreover, Citi™s ability to maintain or reduce its expenses in part depends 
on factors which it cannot control, such as ongoing regulatory changes, 
continued higher regulatory and compliance costs, legal and regulatory 
proceedings and inquiries and macroeconomic conditions, among others. 
In addition, investments Citi has made, or may make, in its businesses or 
operations, such as those in technology systems or in its U.S. credit card 
businesses, may not be as productive or effective as Citi expects or at all.60Citi™s Ability to Continue to Wind-Down Citi Holdings Largely Depends on Factors Outside Its Control. 
While Citi made significant progress in continuing to wind-down Citi 
Holdings in 2015, and Citi expects to maintain Citi Holdings at or above 
ﬁbreak evenﬂ in 2016, as of December 31, 2015, the remaining assets in Citi 
Holdings largely consisted of North America legacy consumer mortgages, of 
which approximately 50% consisted of home equity loans for which a market 
for sales has not yet developed. Accordingly, sales of the remaining mortgage 
assets will largely continue to be subject to ongoing run-off, market appetite 
and/or opportunistic sales. As a result, the remaining assets in Citi Holdings 
will not likely decrease as significantly as in prior years and could continue 
to have a negative impact on Citi™s risk-weighted assets.Citi™s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted if Citi Is Not 
Able to Hire and Retain Highly Qualified Employees for 
Any Reason.
Citi™s performance and the performance of its individual businesses is largely 
dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled employees. Specifically, 
Citi™s continued ability to compete in its businesses, to manage its businesses 
effectively and to continue to execute its overall global strategy depends on 
its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing 
employees. If Citi is unable to continue to attract and retain the most 
highly qualified employees for any reason, Citi™s performance, including its 
competitive position, the successful execution of its overall strategy and its 
results of operations could be negatively impacted.Citi™s ability to attract and retain employees depends on numerous factors, 
some of which are outside of its control. For example, given the heightened 
regulatory and political environment in which Citi operates relative to 
competitors for talent both within and outside of the financial services 
area, it may be more difficult for Citi to hire or retain highly qualified 
employees in the future. Other factors that impact Citi™s ability to attract and 

retain employees include its culture, compensation, the management and 
leadership of the company as well as its individual businesses, Citi™s presence 

in the particular market or region at issue and the professional opportunities 
it offers. Generally, the banking industry is subject to more stringent 

regulation of executive and employee compensation than other industries, 
including deferral and clawback requirements for incentive compensation 
and other limitations. Citi often competes in the market for talent with 
entities that are not subject to such significant regulatory restrictions on the 
structure of incentive compensation.Incorrect Assumptions or Estimates in Citi™s Financial 
Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses 
in the Future, and Changes to Financial Accounting and 
Reporting Standards or Interpretations Could Have a 
Material Impact on How Citi Records and Reports Its 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Citi is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its 
financial statements under U.S. GAAP, including determining credit loss 
reserves, reserves related to litigation and regulatory exposures, valuation of 
DTAs and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. 
If Citi™s assumptions or estimates underlying its financial statements are 
incorrect or differ from actual future events, Citi could experience unexpected 
losses, some of which could be significant.Moreover, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently 
reviewing, or has proposed or issued, changes to several financial accounting 
and reporting standards that govern key aspects of Citi™s financial statements 

or interpretations thereof, including those areas where Citi is required to 
make assumptions or estimates. For example, the FASB has proposed a new 

accounting model intended to require earlier recognition of credit losses 
on financial instruments. The proposed accounting model would require 
that lifetime ﬁexpected credit lossesﬂ on financial assets not recorded at fair 
value through net income, such as loans and held-to-maturity securities, 
be recorded at inception of the financial asset, replacing the multiple 
existing impairment models under U.S. GAAP which generally require that 
a loss be ﬁincurredﬂ before it is recognized (for additional information 
on this and other proposed changes, see Note 1 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements).Changes to financial accounting or reporting standards or interpretations, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, could 

present operational challenges and could require Citi to change certain of 
the assumptions or estimates it previously used in preparing its financial 
statements, which could negatively impact how it records and reports its 
financial condition and results of operations generally and/or with respect to 
particular businesses. For additional information on the key areas for which 
assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi™s financial statements, 

see ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimatesﬂ below and 
Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.61Ongoing Implementation and Interpretation of Regulatory Changes and Requirements in the U.S. and Globally Have 
Increased Citi™s Compliance Risks and Costs.
As referenced above, over the past several years, Citi has been required to 
implement a significant number of regulatory changes across all of its 
businesses and functions, and these changes continue. In some cases, Citi™s 
implementation of a regulatory requirement is occurring simultaneously 
with changing or conflicting regulatory guidance, legal challenges or 
legislative action to modify or repeal final rules. Moreover, in many cases, 
these are entirely new regulatory requirements or regimes, resulting in much 
uncertainty regarding regulatory expectations as to what is definitely required 

in order to be in compliance with the requirements. Accompanying this 
compliance uncertainty is heightened regulatory scrutiny and expectations 
in the U.S. and globally for the financial services industry with respect to 
governance and risk management practices, including its compliance and 
regulatory risks (for a discussion of heightened regulatory expectations on 
ﬁconduct riskﬂ at, and the overall ﬁcultureﬂ of, financial institutions such as 
Citi, see ﬁLegal Risksﬂ below). All of these factors have resulted in increased 
compliance risks and costs for Citi.Examples of regulatory changes that have resulted in increased compliance risks and costs include: The Volcker Rule required Citi to develop an extensive global compliance regime, including developing and maintaining detailed trading and 
permitted activity mandates for businesses, submitting extensive trading 
information to regulatory agencies, conducting independent testing and 
audit, training, recordkeeping and similar requirements and governance, 
including an annual CEO attestation, beginning on March 31, 2016, with 
respect to the global processes Citi has in place to achieve compliance 
with the rules.  Numerous aspects of the U.S. derivatives reform regime require extensive 
compliance systems and processes to be maintained by Citi on a global 
basis, including electronic recordkeeping, real-time public transaction 
reporting and external business conduct requirements (e.g., required swap 
counterparty disclosures).  A proliferation of data protection and ﬁonshoringﬂ requirements adopted 
by various non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as in Russia, South Korea, 
Vietnam and Indonesia, require Citi to take measures to ensure client 
data is stored or processed within national borders. These requirements 
could conflict with anti-money laundering and other requirements in 
other jurisdictions. Extensive compliance requirements can result in increased reputational and legal risks, as failure to comply with regulations and requirements, or 
failure to comply as expected, can result in enforcement and/or regulatory 
proceedings (for additional discussion, see ﬁLegal Risksﬂ below). In addition, 
increased and ongoing compliance requirements and uncertainties have 
resulted in higher costs for Citi. For example, Citi employed approximately 
30,000 regulatory and compliance staff as of year-end 2015, out of a total 
employee population of 231,000, compared to approximately 14,000 as of 
year-end 2008 with a total employee population of 323,000. These higher regulatory and compliance costs also offset Citi™s ongoing cost reduction 

initiatives. For example, data protection and ﬁonshoringﬂ requirements 
often require redundant investments in local data storage and security and 
thus impede or potentially reverse Citi™s centralization or standardization 

efforts, which provide expense efficiencies. Higher compliance costs may also 
require management to reallocate resources, including potentially away from 
ongoing business investment initiatives.Citi Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations and Inquiries That Could 
Result in Significant Penalties and Other Negative Impacts 
on Citi, Its Businesses and Results of Operations.
At any given time, Citi is defending a significant number of legal and 
regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and 
regulatory examinations, investigations and other inquiries. The frequency 
with which such proceedings, investigations and inquiries are initiated 
have increased substantially over the last few years, and the global judicial, 
regulatory and political environment generally remains hostile to large 
financial institutions. For example, under recent guidance by the U.S. 
Department of Justice (DOJ), a corporation (such as Citi) is required to 
identify all individuals involved in or responsible for perceived misconduct 
at issue and provide all related facts and circumstances in order to qualify 
for any cooperation credit in civil and criminal investigations of corporate 62wrongdoing. The complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of Citi™s 
operations, also means that a single event or issue may give rise to a large 
number of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by 
multiple federal and state agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and 
other governmental entities in different jurisdictions.Moreover, U.S. and non-U.S. regulators have been increasingly focused 
on ﬁconduct risk,ﬂ a term that is used to describe the risks associated with 
behavior by employees and agents, including third-party vendors utilized by 
Citi, that could harm consumers, investors or the markets, such as failures 
to safeguard consumers™ and investors™ personal information, failures to 
identify and manage conflicts of interest and improperly creating, selling 
and marketing products and services. In addition to increasing Citi™s 

compliance risks, this focus on conduct risk could lead to more regulatory or 
other enforcement proceedings and litigation, including for practices which 
historically were acceptable but are now receiving greater scrutiny. Further, 

while Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and detect conduct by employees 
and agents that could potentially harm customers, investors or the markets, 
such behavior may not always be deterred or prevented. Banking regulators 
have also focused on the overall culture of financial services firms, including 
Citi. In addition to regulatory restrictions or structural changes that could 
result from perceived deficiencies in Citi™s culture, such focus could also lead 

to additional regulatory proceedings.Further, the severity of the remedies sought in legal and regulatory 
proceedings to which Citi is subject has increased substantially in recent 
years. U.S. and certain international governmental entities have increasingly 
brought criminal actions against, or have sought criminal convictions from, 
financial institutions, and criminal prosecutors in the U.S. have increasingly 
sought and obtained criminal guilty pleas or deferred prosecution 
agreements against corporate entities and other criminal sanctions from 
those institutions. As previously disclosed, in May 2015 an affiliate of Citi 
entered into a settlement with the DOJ whereby the affiliate pleaded guilty 
to an antitrust violation and paid a substantial fine to resolve the DOJ™s 

investigations into Citi™s foreign exchange business practices. These types 

of actions by U.S. and international governmental entities may, in the 

future, have significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, 
including loss of customers and business, and the inability to offer certain 
products or services and/or operate certain businesses. Citi may be required 
to accept or be subject to similar types of criminal remedies, consent orders, 
substantial fines and penalties or other requirements in the future, including 
for matters or practices not yet known to Citi, any of which could materially 
and negatively affect Citi™s businesses, business practices, financial condition 

or results of operations, require material changes in Citi™s operations or cause 

Citi reputational harm. Further, many large claims asserted against Citi are highly complex, 
slow to develop and may involve novel or untested legal theories. The 
outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until late 
in the proceedings. Although Citi establishes accruals for its legal and 
regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, Citi™s estimates 

of, and changes to, these accruals, involve significant judgment and may be 
subject to significant uncertainty and the amount of loss ultimately incurred 
in relation to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts 
accrued. In addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and 
may not be approved.For additional information relating to Citi™s legal and regulatory 
proceedings and matters, including Citi™s policies on establishing legal 

accruals, see Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.6364Overview6467Overview67Consumer Credit67Corporate Credit77Additional Consumer and Corporate Credit Details80Loans Outstanding80Details of Credit Loss Experience81Allowance for Loan Losses83Non-Accrual Loans and Assets and Renegotiated Loans84
Foregone Interest Revenue on Loans8788Overview88High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)88Loans89Deposits89Long-Term Debt
90Secured Funding Transactions and Short-Term Borrowings92

Liquidity Monitoring and Measurement94Credit Ratings9597Overview97Market Risk of Non-Trading Portfolios
97Net Interest Revenue at Risk97Interest Rate Risk of Investment PortfoliosŠImpact  on AOCI97Changes in Foreign Exchange RatesŠImpacts on AOCI and Capital99Interest Revenue/Expense and Net Interest Margin100Additional Interest Rate Details101Market Risk of Trading Portfolios
105Factor Sensitivities106Value at Risk
106Stress Testing
109110111117118˜˚˛˝˝


‘
64For Citi, effective risk management is of primary importance to its overall operations. Accordingly, Citi™s risk management process has been designed to 
monitor, evaluate and manage the principal risks it assumes in conducting 
its activities. Specifically, the activities that Citi engages in, and the risks 
those activities generate, must be consistent with Citi™s mission and value 
proposition, the key principles that guide it, and Citi's risk appetite.Risk management must be built on a foundation of ethical culture. Under Citi™s mission and value proposition, which was developed by Citi™s 

senior leadership and distributed throughout the firm, Citi strives to serve as 
a trusted partner to its clients by responsibly providing financial services that 
enable growth and economic progress while earning and maintaining the 
public™s trust by constantly adhering to the highest ethical standards. As such, 

Citi asks all employees to ensure that their decisions pass three tests: they 
are in clients™ interests, create economic value and are always systemically 
responsible. Additionally, Citi evaluates employees™ performance against 

behavioral expectations set out in Citi™s leadership standards, which were 

designed in part to effectuate Citi™s mission and value proposition. Other 

culture-related efforts in connection with conduct risk, ethics and leadership, 
escalation, and treating customers fairly help Citi to execute its mission and 
value proposition.Four key principlesŠcommon purpose, responsible finance, ingenuity, 
and leadershipŠguide Citi as it performs its mission. Citi™s risk appetite, 

which is approved by the Citigroup Board of Directors, specifies the aggregate 
levels and types of risk the Board and management are willing to assume 
to achieve Citi™s strategic objectives and business plan, consistent with 

applicable capital, liquidity, and other regulatory requirements.
Citi selectively takes risks in support of its underlying business strategy, 
while striving to ensure it operates within its mission and value proposition 
and risk appetite.Citi™s risks are generally categorized and summarized as follows:
 Credit risk is the risk arising from an obligor™s failure to meet the terms 
of any contract or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk is found in 
all activities in which settlement or repayment depends on counterparty, 
issuer, or borrower performance. Liquidity risk is the risk arising from an inability to meet obligations 
when they come due. Liquidity risk includes the inability to access 
funding sources or manage fluctuations in funding levels. Liquidity risk 
also results from a failure to recognize or address changes in market 
conditions that affect Citi™s ability to liquidate assets quickly and with 
minimal loss in value. Market risk is the risk of potential losses arising from changes in the 
value of Citi™s assets and liabilities resulting from changes in market 
variables, such as interest rates. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed 
internal processes, systems, or human factors, or from external events. Country risk is the risk that an event in a country (precipitated by 
developments within or external to a country) will impair the value of 
Citi™s franchise or will adversely affect the ability of obligors within that 
country to honor their obligations. Country risk events may include 
sovereign defaults, banking crises, currency crises, currency convertibility 
and/or transferability restrictions, or political events. Compliance risk is the risk arising from violations of, or non-
conformance with, local, national, or cross-border laws, rules, or 
regulations, our own internal policies and procedures, or relevant 
standards of conduct. Conduct risk is the risk that Citi™s employees or agents may, intentionally 
or through negligence, harm customers, clients, or the integrity of the 
markets, and thereby the integrity of Citi. Legal risk includes the risk of loss, whether financial or reputational, 
due to legal or regulatory actions, proceedings, or investigations, or 
uncertainty in the applicability or interpretation of contracts, laws, 
or regulations. Reputational risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings, capital, or 
franchise or enterprise value arising from negative public opinion.Citi manages its risks through each of its three lines of defense: (i) business management, (ii) independent control functions and (iii) Internal Audit. The three lines of defense collaborate with each other in 
structured forums and processes to bring various perspectives together and to 
steer the organization toward outcomes that are in clients™ interests, create 
economic value and are systemically responsible.Each of Citi™s businesses owns its risks and is responsible for assessing and 
managing its risks. Each business is also responsible for having controls 
in place to mitigate key risks, assessing internal controls and promoting a 
culture of compliance and control. In doing so, a business is required to 
maintain appropriate staffing and implement appropriate procedures to 
fulfill its risk governance responsibilities.The CEOs of each region and business report to the Citigroup CEO. The Head of Operations and Technology and the Head of Productivity, who are 

considered part of the first line of defense, also report to the Citigroup CEO.Businesses at Citi organize and chair many committees and councils that cover risk considerations with participation from independent control 
functions, including committees or councils that are designed to consider 
matters related to capital, assets and liabilities, business practices, business 
risks and controls, mergers and acquisitions, the Community Reinvestment 
Act and fair lending and incentives.65Citi™s independent control functions, including Risk, Compliance, Human Resources, Legal and Finance, set standards by which Citi and its businesses 
are expected to manage and oversee risks, including compliance with 
applicable laws, regulatory requirements, policies and relevant standards of 
conduct. Additionally, among other responsibilities, the independent control 
functions provide advice and training to Citi™s businesses and establish tools, 
methodologies, processes and oversight for controls used by the businesses to 
foster a culture of compliance and control.RiskThe Risk organization is designed to act as an independent partner of 
the business to manage market, credit and operational risk in a manner 
consistent with Citi™s risk appetite. Risk establishes policies and guidelines for 
risk assessments and risk management and contributes to controls and tools 
to manage, measure and mitigate risks taken by the firm.The Chief Risk Officer reports to the Citigroup CEO and the Risk Management Committee of the Citigroup Board of Directors. The Chief 
Risk Officer has regular and unrestricted access to the Risk Management 
Committee of the Board and also to the Citigroup Board of Directors to 
address risks and issues identified through Risk™s activities.
ComplianceThe Compliance organization is designed to protect Citi not only by 
managing adherence to applicable laws, regulations, and other standards 
of conduct, but also by promoting business behavior that is consistent with 
Citi™s mission and value proposition, the principle of responsible finance and 
Citi™s compliance risk appetite. For further information on Citi™s compliance 
risk appetite, see ﬁCompliance, Conduct and Legal Riskﬂ below.The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the Citigroup CEO and has regular and unrestricted access to the Audit Committee, Ethics and Culture 
Committee and other ad hoc committees of the Citigroup Board of Directors 
to report on, among other items, possible breaches of Citi™s compliance 

risk appetite.Human ResourcesThe Human Resources organization provides personnel support and 
governance in connection with, among other things: recognizing and 
rewarding employees who demonstrate Citi™s values and excel in their roles 
and responsibilities; setting ethical- and performance-related expectations 
and developing and promoting employees who meet those expectations; and 
searching for, assessing, and hiring staff who exemplify Citi™s leadership 
standards, which outline Citi™s expectations of its employees™ behavior.The Head of Human Resources reports to the Citigroup CEO and interacts regularly with the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Citigroup 
Board of Directors.Legal
The Legal organization is involved in a number of activities designed to 
promote the appropriate management of Citi™s exposure to legal risk. Those 
activities include, among others: promoting and supporting Citigroup™s 
governance processes; advising businesses management, other independent 
control functions, the Citigroup Board of Directors and committees of 
the Board regarding analysis of laws and regulations, regulatory matters, 
disclosure matters, and potential risks and exposures on key litigation and 
transactional matters, among other things; advising other independent 
control functions in their efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations as well as other internal standards of conduct; serving on 
key management committees; reporting and escalating key legal issues to 
senior management or other independent control functions; participating 
in internal investigations and overseeing regulatory investigations; 
and advising businesses on a day-to-day basis on legal, regulatory and 
contractual matters.The General Counsel reports to the Citigroup CEO and is responsible to the full Citigroup Board. In addition to having regular and unrestricted access to 
the full Citigroup Board of Directors, the General Counsel, or his delegates, 
regularly attends meetings of the Risk Management Committee, Audit 
Committee, Personnel and Compensation Committee, Ethics and Culture 
Committee, Operations and Technology Committee, and Nomination, 

Governance and Public Affairs Committee as well as other ad hoc committees 
of the Citigroup Board of Directors.FinanceThe Finance organization is primarily comprised of the following disciplines: 
treasury, controllers, tax and financial planning and analysis. These 
disciplines partner with the businesses, providing key data and consultation 
to facilitate sound decisions in support of the businesses™ objectives. Through 
these activities, Finance serves as an independent control function advising 
business management, escalating identified risks and establishing policies or 
processes to manage risk.Through the treasury discipline, Finance has overall responsibility for managing Citi™s balance sheet and accordingly partners with the businesses 

to manage Citi™s liquidity and interest rate risk (price risk for non-trading 

portfolios). Treasury works with the businesses to establish balance sheet 

targets and limits, as well as sets policies on funding costs charged for 
business assets based on their liquidity and duration.Principally through the controllers discipline, Finance is responsible for establishing a strong control environment over Citi™s financial 

reporting processes consistent with the 2013 Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission, or COSO, Internal 

ControlŠIntegrated Framework.Finance is led by Citi™s Chief Financial Officer (CFO), who reports directly 
to the Citigroup CEO. The CFO chairs or co-chairs several management 
committees that serve as key governance and oversight forums for business 
activities. In addition, the CFO has regular and unrestricted access to the full 
Citigroup Board of Directors as well as to the Audit Committee of the Board 
of Directors.66Citi™s Internal Audit function independently reviews activities of the first two lines of defense based on a risk-based audit plan and methodology approved 
by the Audit Committee of the Citigroup Board of Directors. Internal Audit 
also provides independent assurance to the Citigroup Board of Directors, the 
Audit Committee of the Board, senior management and regulators regarding 
the effectiveness of Citi™s governance and controls designed to mitigate Citi™s 
exposure to risks and to enhance Citi™s culture of compliance and control.The Chief Auditor reports functionally to the Chairman of the Citigroup Audit Committee and administratively to the CEO of Citigroup. Internal 
Audit™s responsibilities are carried out independently under the oversight of 

the Audit Committee. Internal Audit™s employees accordingly report to the 

Chief Auditor and do not have reporting lines to front-line units or senior 
management. Internal Audit™s staff members are not permitted to provide 

internal-audit services for a business line or function in which they had 
business line or function responsibilities within the previous 12 months.
Business Management AccountabilityIndependent Assessment by Internal Audit
Oversight by Independent Control Functions
BusinessOwns its risksand is responsible for
managing its risks.In-Business Risk ManagementIdentify and report risks
as they emerge andcommunicate these risks toIndependent Risk Management andother Control Functions.
The Independent Control Functions establish the second line of defense to enhance
the effectiveness of controls across products, business lines, and regions.
Internal Audit
Recommends enhancements on an ongoing basis and provides independent assessment and evaluation.
Functional SpecialistsAdvise on, contribute to,execute, and/or oversee keycontrols in support of the efficient 
and effective management
of risk.RiskComplianceHuman Resources
LegalFinance1st2nd3rd
Citigroup™s Board of Directors oversees Citi™s risk-taking activities. To do so, 
directors review risk assessments and reports prepared by Risk, Compliance, 
Human Resources, Legal, Finance and Internal Audit and exercise 
independent judgment to question, challenge, and when necessary, oppose 
recommendations and decisions made by senior management that could 
cause Citi™s risk profile to exceed its risk appetite or jeopardize the safety and 
soundness of the firm.The standing committees of the Citigroup Board of Directors are the Executive Committee, Risk Management Committee, Audit Committee, 
Personnel and Compensation Committee, Ethics and Culture Committee, 
Operations and Technology Committee and Nomination, Governance and 

Public Affairs Committee. In addition to the standing committees, the Board 
creates ad hoc committees from time to time in response to regulatory, legal, 

or other requirements.67Credit risk is the potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or counterparty to honor its financial or contractual obligations. 
Credit risk arises in many of Citigroup™s business activities, including: wholesale and retail lending;  capital markets derivative transactions;  structured finance; and  repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions.Credit risk also arises from settlement and clearing activities, when Citi transfers an asset in advance of receiving its counter-value or advances funds 
to settle a transaction on behalf of a client. Concentration risk, within credit 
risk, is the risk associated with having credit exposure concentrated within a 
specific client, industry, region or other category.
Credit risk is one of the most significant risks Citi faces as an institution. As a result, Citi has a well-established framework in place for managing 
credit risk across all businesses. This includes a defined risk appetite, 
credit limits and credit policies, both at the business level as well as at the 
company-wide level. Citi™s credit risk management also includes processes 

and policies with respect to problem recognition, including ﬁwatch lists,ﬂ 
portfolio review, updated risk ratings and classification triggers.
With respect to Citi™s settlement and clearing activities, intra-day client 
usage of lines is closely monitored against limits, as well as against ﬁnormalﬂ 
usage patterns. To the extent a problem develops, Citi typically moves 

the client to a secured (collateralized) operating model. Generally, Citi™s 

intra-day settlement and clearing lines are uncommitted and cancellable 
at any time.To manage concentration of risk within credit risk, Citi has in place 
a concentration management framework consisting of industry limits, 
obligor limits and single-name triggers. In addition, the independent 
Risk organization reviews concentration of risk across Citi™s regions and 

businesses to assist in managing this type of risk.Credit exposures are generally reported in notional terms for accrual loans, reflecting the value at which the loans as well as loan and other off-
balance sheet commitments are carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
Credit exposure arising from capital markets activities is generally expressed 
as the current mark-to-market, net of margin, reflecting the net value owed 
to Citi by a given counterparty.
The credit risk associated with these credit exposures is a function of the creditworthiness of the obligor, as well as the terms and conditions of 

the specific obligation. Citi assesses the credit risk associated with its credit 
exposures on a regular basis through its loan loss reserve process (see 
ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimatesﬂ below and Notes 
1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), as well as through 
regular stress testing at the company, business, geography and product levels. 

These stress-testing processes typically estimate potential incremental credit 
costs that would occur as a result of either downgrades in the credit quality or 
defaults of the obligors or counterparties.For additional information on Citi™s credit risk management, see Note 15 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.OverviewCiti™s North America consumer mortgage portfolio consists of both 
residential first mortgages and home equity loans. At December 31, 2015, 
Citi™s North America consumer mortgage portfolio was $79.7 billion 
(compared to $95.9 billion at December 31, 2014), of which the residential 
first mortgage portfolio was $56.9 billion (compared to $67.8 billion at 
December 31, 2014), and the home equity loan portfolio was $22.8 billion 
(compared to $28.1 billion at December 31, 2014). The decline during the 
year was primarily attributed to $14.7 billion of North America consumer mortgages sold or transferred to held-for-sale, including $6.6 billion of 
CitiFinancial consumer mortgages ($5.4 billion of residential first mortgages 
and $1.2 billion of home equity loans) transferred to held-for-sale and 
classified as Other assets in the fourth quarter of 2015. At December 31, 2015, 
$18.7 billion of residential first mortgages were recorded in Citi Holdings, 
with the remaining $38.2 billion recorded in Citicorp. At December 31, 2015, 
$19.1 billion of home equity loans was recorded in Citi Holdings, with the 
remaining $3.6 billion recorded in Citicorp. Citi™s residential first mortgage portfolio included $3.4 billion of loans 
with Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insurance or Department 
of Veterans Affairs (VA) guarantees at December 31, 2015, compared to 

$5.2 billion at December 31, 2014. The decline during the year was primarily 
due to mortgage loans with FHA insurance sold or transferred to held-for-

sale. Citi™s FHA/VA portfolio consists of loans to low-to-moderate-income 

borrowers with lower FICO (Fair Isaac Corporation) scores and generally 
higher loan-to-value ratios (LTVs). Credit losses on FHA loans are borne 

by the sponsoring governmental agency, provided that the insurance terms 

have not been rescinded as a result of an origination defect. With respect 
to VA loans, the VA establishes a loan-level loss cap, beyond which Citi is 

liable for loss. While FHA and VA loans have high delinquency rates, given 

the insurance and guarantees, respectively, Citi has experienced negligible 

credit losses on these loans.68As of December 31, 2015, Citi™s 
North America residential first mortgage portfolio contained approximately $2.4 billion of adjustable rate mortgages that are currently required to make a payment consisting of only accrued 
interest for the payment period, or an interest-only payment, compared to 
$3.8 billion at December 31, 2014. This decline resulted primarily from 
repayments and conversions to amortizing loans. Residential first mortgages 
with this payment feature are primarily to high-credit-quality borrowers 
who have on average significantly higher origination and refreshed FICO 
scores than other loans in the residential first mortgage portfolio, and 
have exhibited significantly lower 30+ delinquency rates as compared 
with residential first mortgages without this payment feature. As such, Citi 
does not believe the residential mortgage loans with this payment feature 
represent substantially higher risk in the portfolio.Citi does not offer option-adjustable rate mortgages/negative-amortizing mortgage products to its customers. As a result, option-adjustable rate 
mortgages/negative-amortizing mortgages represent an insignificant portion 
of total balances, since they were acquired only incidentally as part of prior 
portfolio and business purchases.For additional information on Citi™s 
North America consumer mortgage portfolio, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.North America Consumer Mortgage Quarterly Credit 
TrendsŠNet Credit Losses and DelinquenciesŠResidential 
First Mortgages
The following charts detail the quarterly credit trends for Citi™s residential 
first mortgage portfolio in North America.4Q™15(1)3Q™152Q™151Q™154Q™14278332373422735216371938In billions of dollars$68$64$64$57$644Q'153Q'152Q'151Q'154Q'1426915228152180397519563In millions of dollars$122$108$104$68$85Total NCL Rate

Citi Holdings CMI
Citi Holdings CFNA
Citi Holdings Total

Citicorp
S&P/Case Shiller Home Price Index
(2)
˝”˝

˜˚˛˝
˝
ˆˇ
Other assets˝˘˝˝

˜⁄˛˝Ł
˝−˘
˝Ł

69
In billions of dollars˜˚
4Q™15(1)3Q™152Q™151Q™154Q™143Q™142Q™141Q™144Q™131.881.581.641.431.120.880.830.870.540.640.590.550.410.340.280.250.263.663.343.392.772.311.971.801.750.860.101.131.181.200.940.840.810.720.620.23˝“˘˝˘
˝”
˜˚˛˝
ˆˇ
Other assets˝˘
Net credit losses in the North America residential first mortgage portfolio continued to improve during 2015 as a result of improvements in the home price index (HPI) and sales or transfers to held-for-sale of residential first 

mortgages during 2015, as well as overall loss mitigation activities within 
CitiFinancial.Residential first mortgages originated by CitiFinancial have a higher net credit loss rate as CitiFinancial borrowers tend to have higher LTVs and 

lower FICO scores than CitiMortgage borrowers. CitiFinancial™s residential 

first mortgages also have a significantly different geographic distribution, 
with different mortgage market conditions that tend to lag the overall 
improvements in HPI.During 2015, continued management actions, primarily the sale or transfer to held-for-sale of approximately $1.5 billion of delinquent 

residential first mortgages, including $0.9 billion in the fourth quarter 
largely associated with the transfer of CitiFinancial loans to held-for-sale 

referenced above, were the primary driver of the overall improvement in 
delinquencies within Citi Holdings™ residential first mortgage portfolio. 
Credit performance from quarter to quarter could continue to be impacted by 
the amount of delinquent loan sales or transfers to held-for-sale, as well as 

overall trends in HPI and interest rates.70North America Residential First MortgagesŠState Delinquency TrendsThe following tables set forth the six U.S. states and/or regions with the highest concentration of Citi™s residential first mortgages.In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2015
˝⁄•˚ƒ
˝State (1)ENR (2)ENR Distribution90+DPD %% LTV > 
100% (3)Refreshed FICO™−š˝˜⁄˛™−š˝……˝ž
˚••…˝$19.2
37%0.2%1%754
¢⁄…‡ƒ–
˜ƒ˛12.7250.81751
⁄•⁄‡ƒ•

2.241.22719
–›—‹–
˜ƒ˛2.241.03735
ƒ‹
˙ž˝˜ƒ˛2.241.14723
–˚ƒ‡••
”¤1.941.0Š711
ƒ¥—›•
11.0211.32710
‡—‡‡
Total 
(5)$51.5
100%0.7%1%738
¢˚••…ƒ…‡˚–
˝”

˜˚˛˝

˜⁄˛˝


˝ž
’˝˘’˝˘
˜ƒ˛˝Ł
’
˜–˛˝
ˆˇˆˇ

Foreclosures
A substantial majority of Citi™s foreclosure inventory consists of residential 
first mortgages. At December 31, 2015, Citi™s foreclosure inventory included approximately $0.1 billion, or 0.2%, of the total residential first mortgage 
portfolio, compared to $0.6 billion, or 0.9%, at December 31, 2014, based on 
the dollar amount of ending net receivables of loans in foreclosure inventory, 
excluding loans that are guaranteed by U.S. government agencies and loans 
subject to LTSCs.North America Consumer Mortgage Quarterly Credit 
TrendsŠNet Credit Losses and DelinquenciesŠHome 
Equity Loans
Citi™s home equity loan portfolio consists of both fixed-rate home equity 
loans and loans extended under home equity lines of credit. Fixed-rate 
home equity loans are fully amortizing. Home equity lines of credit 
allow for amounts to be drawn for a period of time with the payment of 
interest only and then, at the end of the draw period, the then-outstanding 
amount is converted to an amortizing loan (the interest-only payment 
feature during the revolving period is standard for this product across the 
industry). After conversion, the home equity loans typically have a 20-year 
amortization period. As of December 31, 2015, Citi™s home equity loan 
portfolio of $22.8 billion consisted of $6.3 billion of fixed-rate home equity 
loans and $16.5 billion of loans extended under home equity lines of credit 
(Revolving HELOCs).71Revolving HELOCsAs noted above, as of December 31, 2015, Citi had $16.5 billion of Revolving HELOCs, of which $4.2 billion had commenced amortization (compared 
to $1.9 billion at December 31, 2014) and $12.3 billion were still within their revolving period and have not commenced amortization, or ﬁreset,ﬂ 
(compared to $16.7 billion at December 31, 2014). The following chart 
indicates the FICO and combined loan-to-value (CLTV) characteristics of 
Citi™s Revolving HELOCs portfolio and the year in which they reset:FICO 660+,CLTV>100
FICO<660,CLTV>100
FICO 660+,CLTV>=80<=100
FICO<660,CLTV>=80<=100
FICO 660+,CLTV<80
FICO<660,CLTV<80
%ENR$6.0$5.0$4.0
$3.0
$2.0$1.0$0.02019+201820172016201520142013<20132.1%2.0%4.6%16.4%24.4%24.7%13.1%12.6%

In billions of dollars as of December 31, 2015
$7.0˝”
Approximately 25% of Citi™s total Revolving HELOCs portfolio had 
commenced amortization as of December 31, 2015 (compared to 10% as of December 31, 2014). Of the remaining Revolving HELOCs portfolio, 
approximately 66% will commence amortization during the period of 
2016Œ2017. Before commencing amortization, Revolving HELOC borrowers 
are required to pay only interest on their loans. Upon amortization, these 
borrowers will be required to pay both interest, usually at a variable rate, 
and principal that amortizes typically over 20 years, rather than the typical 
30-year amortization. As a result, Citi™s customers with Revolving HELOCs that reset could experience ﬁpayment shockﬂ due to the higher required 
payments on the loans. While it is not certain what ultimate impact this payment shock could have on Citi™s delinquency rates and net credit losses, Citi currently estimates 

that the monthly loan payment for its Revolving HELOCs that reset during 
the period of 2016Œ2017 could increase on average by approximately $370, 
or 165%. Increases in interest rates could further increase these payments 
given the variable nature of the interest rates on these loans post-reset. Of 
the Revolving HELOCs that will commence amortization during the period 
of 2016Œ2017, approximately $0.6 billion, or 8%, of the loans have a CLTV 

greater than 100% as of December 31, 2015. Borrowers™ high loan-to-value positions, as well as the cost and availability of refinancing options, could 
limit borrowers™ ability to refinance their Revolving HELOCs as these loans 
begin to reset.72Approximately 6.7% of the Revolving HELOCs that have begun amortization as of December 31, 2015 were 30+ days past due, compared to 3.2% of the total outstanding home equity loan portfolio (amortizing 
and non-amortizing). This compared to 6.4% and 2.7%, respectively, as 

of December 31, 2014. As newly amortizing loans continue to season, the 
delinquency rate of the amortizing Revolving HELOC portfolio and total 
home equity loan portfolio is expected to continue to increase. In addition, 
resets to date have generally occurred during a period of historically low 
interest rates, which Citi believes has likely reduced the overall ﬁpayment 
shockﬂ to the borrower.
Citi continues to monitor this reset risk closely and will continue to consider any potential impact in determining its allowance for loan loss 
reserves. In addition, management continues to review and take additional 
actions to offset potential reset risk, such as a borrower outreach program to 
provide reset risk education and proactively working with high-risk borrowers 
through a specialized single point of contact unit. For further information on 
reset risk, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠCredit and Market Risksﬂ above.Net Credit Losses and Delinquencies
The following charts detail the quarterly credit trends for Citi™s home equity 
loan portfolio in North America:4Q™153Q™152Q™151Q™154Q™142524232219In billions of dollarsCiti HoldingsCiticorp$28$27$26$23$25333444Q™153Q™152Q™151Q™154Q™14871812712611562In millions of dollarsCiti HoldingsCiticorp$88$83$72$58$62Total NCL Rate
1.2%1.2%1.1%1.0%0.9%
Citi Holdings1.4%1.3%1.2%1.1%1.1%
Citicorp0.2%0.2%0.2%0.1%0.2%
˝”

In billions of dollars˜˚
4Q™153Q™152Q™151Q™154Q™143Q™142Q™141Q™144Q™130.420.350.340.330.320.270.270.310.270.250.230.210.200.190.180.160.160.150.330.320.310.300.310.310.300.270.291.000.890.850.840.820.750.730.750.69˝”
73As evidenced by the tables above, net credit losses in the North America home equity loan portfolio continued to improve during 2015, largely driven by the continued improvement in HPI. Delinquencies in the portfolio 
also improved during 2015, primarily due to liquidations and continued 
management actions, including the transfer of CitiFinancial home 
equity loans to held-for-sale in the fourth quarter of 2015 and continued 

modifications, partially offset by increased delinquencies associated with the 
increase in Revolving HELOCs commencing amortization.Given the limited market in which to sell delinquent home equity loans to date, as well as the relatively smaller number of home equity loan 
modifications and modification programs (see Note 15 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements), Citi™s ability to reduce delinquencies or net credit 

losses in its home equity loan portfolio in Citi Holdings, whether pursuant to 
deterioration of the underlying credit performance of these loans, the reset of 
the Revolving HELOCs (as discussed above) or otherwise, is more limited as 
compared to residential first mortgages.North America Home Equity LoansŠState Delinquency Trends
The following tables set forth the six U.S. states and/or regions with the highest concentration of Citi™s home equity loans:In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2015
˝⁄•˚ƒ
State (1)ENR (2)ENR Distribution90+DPD %% CLTV > 
100% (3)Refreshed FICO™−š˝˜⁄˛™−š˝……˝
˚••…$6.2
29%1.7%6%731
¢⁄›…˚•…‡⁄‹
˜ƒ˛6.0282.58725
⁄–˚˚‡⁄˚
˙ž˝˜ƒ˛1.572.024715
‡‡•‡

1.362.023715
—⁄›‡•—
˜ƒ˛0.941.629722
ƒ‡˚—
˜ƒ˛0.531.924703
—››
5.1241.712712
⁄‡˚‹‡•⁄
Total
$21.5
100%2.0%12%722
¢˚••…˚‡…‡˚–
˝”

˜˚˛˝

˜⁄˛˝

˝
’˝˘’˝˘

˜ƒ˛˝Ł
’
74Consumer Loan Delinquency Amounts and RatiosEOP loans (1)90+ days past due (2)30Œ89 days past due (2)December 31,December 31,December 31,In millions of dollars, except EOP loan amounts in billions
20152015
⁄•˚ƒ
2015⁄•˚ƒ
Citicorp (3)(4)”
$285.3$2,213
¢¢
$2,512
¢¢
š˘
0.78%
0.88%

Retail banking”
$146.8$577
¢›˚—¢‹⁄‡
$795
¢›–ƒ¢‹‡•
š˘
0.40%
0.55%

North America51.8165
⁄⁄–⁄–‡
221⁄˚⁄⁄•–
š˘
0.33%
0.44%

Latin America
24.0235
ƒ—•
224⁄‹•
š˘
0.98%
0.93%

Asia ˜–˛71.0177
˚‹ƒ⁄˚•
350
š˘
0.25%
0.49%

Cards”
$138.5$1,636
¢¢
$1,717
¢¢
š˘
1.18%
1.24%

North AmericaŠCiti-branded67.2538
—›˚
523–—›——˚
š˘
0.80%
0.78%

North AmericaŠCiti retail services
46.1705
—‡›‡‡˚
773‡ƒ›
š˘
1.53%
1.68%

Latin America
7.5213
⁄›ƒ⁄‹•
196⁄—⁄⁄‹›
š˘
2.84%
2.61%

Asia ˜–˛17.7180
˚‹–
225⁄–—⁄‹–
š˘
1.02%
1.27%

Citi Holdings (6)(7)”
$44.3$840
¢¢
$960
¢¢
š˘
2.00%
2.28%

International
3.870
˚˚•
103˚—›
š˘
1.84%
2.71%

North America40.5770

857
š˘
2.01%
2.24%

Other  ˜›˛0.2Total Citigroup
$329.8$3,053
¢¢
$3,472
¢¢
š˘
0.94%
1.06%

˜˚˛˝˜⁄˛˝

˝
ˆˇ˝North AmericaŠCiti-brandedNorth AmericaŠCiti retail services


˜ƒ˛˝

North America’˝
˝
˘’˝

’
˜–˛˝˝
Asia GCB
EMEA GCB
˜—˛˝

North America
˝

’˝˝

’
˜‡˛˝
ˆˇ˝
North America’

˜›˛˝Consumer loans
75Consumer Loan Net Credit Losses and RatiosAverage 
loans (1)Net credit losses (2)(3)In millions of dollars, except average loan amounts in billions
20152015
⁄•˚ƒ
Citicorp”
$281.3$6,029
¢¢
š˘
2.14%
Retail banking”
$148.1$1,241
¢¢
š˘
0.84%
North America49.5152
˚›—
š˘
0.31%
Latin America
25.0764
‹•‡›˚—
š˘
3.06%
Asia ˜ƒ˛73.6325
⁄‡⁄
š˘
0.44%
Cards”
$133.2$4,788
¢¢
š˘
3.59%
North AmericaŠCiti-branded64.01,892

š˘
2.96%
North AmericaŠRetail services
43.41,709

š˘
3.94%
Latin America
8.2785
‹–ƒ‡‹ƒ
š˘
9.57%
Asia ˜ƒ˛17.6402
ƒ‡‡ƒ‹‹
š˘
2.28%
Citi Holdings (3)”
$61.6$1,035
¢¢
š˘
1.68%
International
5.0173
⁄—˚ƒ˚˚
š˘
3.46%
North America56.6862

š˘
1.52%
Other  ˜–˛Š4——Total Citigroup
$342.9$7,068
¢¢
š˘
2.06%
˜˚˛˝
˜⁄˛˝

˝
ˆˇ˝˝˘’˝
Other revenue˝’’˝
Other assets˜ƒ˛˝˝
Asia GCB
EMEA GCB
˜–˛˝Consumer loans
76Loan Maturities and Fixed/Variable Pricing U.S. Consumer MortgagesIn millions of dollars at year end 2015
Due within 1 yearGreater than 1 year but within 5 yearsGreater than  
5 yearsTotal
U.S. Consumer mortgage loan 
portfolio
$126$724$57,545$58,395
7,6388,6585,59021,886
Total
$7,764$9,382$63,135$80,281
Fixed/variable pricing of U.S. 
consumer mortgage loans 
with maturities due after 
one year
$1,195$43,666


8,18719,468
Total
$9,382$63,134
77Consistent with its overall strategy, Citi™s corporate clients are typically large, multi-national corporations which value Citi™s global network. Citi aims to 
establish relationships with these clients that encompass multiple products, 
consistent with client needs, including cash management and trade services, 
foreign exchange, lending, capital markets and M&A advisory.The following table sets forth Citi™s corporate credit portfolio within ICG (excluding private bank), before consideration of collateral or hedges, by 
remaining tenor for the periods indicated:At December 31, 2015
˝⁄•˚–
˝⁄•˚ƒ
In billions of dollarsDue within  
1 yearGreater than 1 year  
but within 5 yearsGreater than  
5 yearsTotal 
exposure


”


˝
”
˜˚˛$98$97$25$220
¢‹–¢‹‹¢¢⁄⁄ƒ¢‹–¢›–¢¢

˜⁄˛9923126356
‹˚⁄⁄⁄‹⁄⁄•‡
Total exposure
$197$328$51$576
¢˚›—¢¢——¢¢˚›‡¢⁄‹⁄¢——¢–ƒ–
˜˚˛˝

˜⁄˛˝
Portfolio MixŠGeography, Counterparty and Industry
Citi™s corporate credit portfolio is diverse across geography and counterparty. 
The following table shows the percentage by region based on Citi™s internal 
management geography:December 31, 
 2015˝
˝⁄•˚–˝
˝⁄•˚ƒNorth America56%–—…––…EMEA25⁄–⁄–Asia12˚⁄Latin America
7‡‡Total
100%˚••…˚••…The maintenance of accurate and consistent risk ratings across the corporate credit portfolio facilitates the comparison of credit exposure across 
all lines of business, geographic regions and products. Counterparty risk 
ratings reflect an estimated probability of default for a counterparty and are 
derived primarily through the use of validated statistical models, scorecard 
models and external agency ratings (under defined circumstances), 
in combination with consideration of factors specific to the obligor or 
market, such as management experience, competitive position, regulatory 
environment and commodity prices. Facility risk ratings are assigned that 
reflect the probability of default of the obligor and factors that affect the 
loss-given-default of the facility, such as support or collateral. Internal 

obligor ratings that generally correspond to BBB and above are considered 
investment grade, while those below are considered non-investment grade.Citigroup also has incorporated climate risk assessment and reporting criteria for certain obligors, as necessary. Factors evaluated include 

consideration of climate risk to an obligor™s business and physical assets and, 

when relevant, consideration of cost-effective options to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions.The following table presents the corporate credit portfolio by facility risk rating as a percentage of the total corporate credit portfolio:Total Exposure
December 31, 
 2015˝
˝⁄•˚–˝
˝⁄•˚ƒ48%ƒ‹…ƒ‹…3515˚–˚—2˚˚
Š¥˚Total
100%˚••…˚••…˝”
78Citi™s corporate credit portfolio is also diversified by industry. The following table shows the allocation of Citi™s total corporate credit portfolio by industry:Total Exposure
December 31, 
 2015˝
˝⁄•˚–˝
˝⁄•˚ƒ”
20%⁄˚…⁄˚…
16˚—˚‡”’
12˚•‹˝

11˚•˚•’˝
˜˚˛9‹˚•ﬂ˝
7‡›
6——5—–5—–5––4ƒƒTotal
100%˚••…˚••…
˝”

˜˚˛˝
’ﬂ
©”

˝

˝˘

˘
Exposure to the Energy and Energy-Related Sector
As of December 31, 2015, Citi™s total corporate credit exposure to the 
energy and energy-related sector (see footnote 1 to the table above) was 
approximately $58 billion, with approximately $21 billion, or 3%, of Citi™s 
total outstanding loans consisting of direct outstanding funded loans. This 
compared to approximately $61 billion of total corporate credit exposure 
and $21 billion of direct outstanding funded loans as of September 30, 
2015. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, approximately 72% of Citi™s 
total corporate credit energy and energy-related exposure was in the United 
States, United Kingdom and Canada (compared to approximately 73% at 
September 30, 2015). Also as of December 31, 2015, approximately 80% of 
Citi™s total energy and energy-related exposures were rated investment grade 
(compared to approximately 79% as of September 30, 2015).During the fourth quarter of 2015, Citi built additional energy and energy-related loan loss reserves of approximately $250 million, and 
incurred approximately $75 million of net credit losses in these portfolios. 
For the full year 2015, Citi built net loan loss reserves against energy and 
energy-related exposures by approximately $530 million, and incurred net 
credit losses of approximately $95 million. As of December 31, 2015, Citi 
held loan loss reserves against its funded energy and energy-related loans 
equal to approximately 3.8% of these loans. For additional information on 
energy and energy-related reserving actions in ICG, see ﬁInstitutional Clients 
Groupﬂ above.Exposure to Banks, Broker-Dealers and Finance CompaniesAs of December 31, 2015, Citi™s total corporate credit exposure to banks, 
broker-dealers and finance companies was approximately $42 billion, of 
which $29 billion represented direct outstanding funded loans, or 5% of 
Citi™s total outstanding loans. These amounts were mostly unchanged when compared to $43 billion of total corporate credit exposure and $29 billion 
of direct outstanding funded loans to banks, broker-dealers and finance 
companies as of September 30, 2015. Also as of December 31, 2015, approximately 84% of Citi™s bank, broker-dealers and finance companies 
total corporate credit exposure was rated investment grade.Included in the amounts noted above, Citi™s total corporate credit exposure to banks was approximately $26 billion as of December 31, 2015 and was 
not concentrated in any particular geographic region. Of this exposure, more 
than 70% had a tenor of less than 12 months. As of December 31, 2015, Citi™s 

direct outstanding funded loans to banks was $21 billion, or 3% of Citi™s total 

outstanding loans.In addition to the corporate lending exposures described above, Citi has additional exposure to banks, broker-dealers and finance companies 

in the form of derivatives and securities financing transactions, which 
are typically executed as repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements 
or securities loaned or borrowed arrangements. As of December 31, 2015, 
Citi had net derivative credit exposure to banks, broker dealers and finance 
companies of approximately $5 billion after the application of netting 
arrangements, legally enforceable margin agreements and other collateral 
arrangements. The collateral considered as part of the net derivative credit exposure was represented primarily by high quality, liquid assets. As of December 31, 2015, Citi had net credit exposure to banks, broker-dealers and finance companies in the form of securities financing transactions of 
$7 billion after the application of netting and collateral arrangements. The collateral considered in the net exposure for the securities financing 
transactions exposure was primarily cash and highly liquid investment 
grade securities.79Credit Risk MitigationAs part of its overall risk management activities, Citigroup uses credit 
derivatives and other risk mitigants to hedge portions of the credit risk in 
its corporate credit portfolio, in addition to outright asset sales. The results 
of the mark-to-market and any realized gains or losses on credit derivatives 
are reflected primarily in Other revenue on the Consolidated Statement 
of Income.At December 31, 2015, September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014, $34.5 billion, $33.0 billion and $27.6 billion, respectively, of the corporate credit portfolio was economically hedged. Citigroup™s expected loss model 

used in the calculation of its loan loss reserve does not include the favorable 
impact of credit derivatives and other mitigants that are marked to market. 
In addition, the reported amounts of direct outstandings and unfunded 
lending commitments in the tables above do not reflect the impact of these 
hedging transactions. The credit protection was economically hedging 
underlying corporate credit portfolio exposures with the following risk 
rating distribution:December 31, 
 2015˝
˝⁄•˚–˝
˝⁄•˚ƒ21%⁄ƒ…⁄ƒ…48ƒƒƒ⁄27⁄›⁄›4ƒ—Total
100%˚••…˚••…The credit protection was economically hedging underlying corporate credit 
portfolio exposures with the following industry distribution:December 31, 
 2015˝
˝⁄•˚–˝
˝⁄•˚ƒ”
28%⁄›…
17˚–˚˚”’
16˚–˚–’
13˚•˝
12˚–4ƒ—5—ƒ
4ƒ‡1⁄⁄Total
100%˚••…˚••…
In millions of dollars at  
December 31, 2015
Due within  
1 yearOver  
1 year  
but within  
5 yearsOver  
5 yearsTotal
Corporate loanIn U.S. offices
$19,921$13,522$7,704$41,147
17,62011,9616,81536,396

18,18712,3457,03337,565
8625853331,780

16,15710,9686,24933,374
In offices outside the U.S.90,36534,44013,427138,232
Total corporate loans
$163,112$83,821$41,561$288,494
Fixed/variable pricing of 
corporate loans with maturities 
due after one year (1)
$9,858$11,192


73,96330,369
Total
$83,821$41,561
˜˚˛˝


80December 31,In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛
Consumer loans

$80,281


3,480
112,800
6,407
Š•••˛$202,968



$47,062


29,480
27,342
21,679
427†˛˛
$125,990

Total consumer loans
$328,958

825
Consumer loans, net of unearned income
$329,783

Corporate loans

$41,147

36,396

37,565

33,374
1,780
$150,262


$78,420

28,704

5,106

20,853
238

4,911
$138,232

Total corporate loans
$288,494

(660)
Corporate loans, net of unearned income
$287,834

Total loansŠnet of unearned income
$617,617


(12,626)
Total loansŠnet
 of unearned income and allowance for credit losses$604,991
Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loansŠnet of unearned income (4)2.06%
Allowance for consumer loan losses as a percentage of total consumer loansŠnet of unearned income (4)3.01%
Allowance for corporate loan losses as a percentage of total corporate 
loansŠnet of unearned income (4)0.96%
˘‹˘›

˘

˘
˘

˘
81In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛
Allowance for loan losses at beginning of period$15,994

Provision for loan losses
$6,265


843˛
$7,108

Gross credit lossesConsumer
$5,500


3,210
Corporate


112

164˛˝˝

Š˜˜˙˙

4˛˙†


8


43
˜˛˛†˛$9,041

Credit recoveries 
(3)Consumer
$975


667
Corporate


22˜˝˙

59


7˛˛••

2˛˛˜˚
˝˙


7•˙˛
˛†˜†

Š•˜˜$1,739

Net credit losses
$4,609


2,693
Total
$7,302

$(3,174)

Allowance for loan losses at end of period$12,626


2.06%

$1,402



Total allowance for loan losses and unfunded lending commitments
$14,028



$7,068


2.06%

$234
˜˚˛˜˜˙

0.08%
™
82In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛
Allowance for loan losses at end of period (13)$10,616

2,010
Total Citigroup
$12,626



Allowance by type$9,916


2,710
Total Citigroup
$12,626



˘

˘
Allowance for loan 
losses
˘
˘
˘
˘

˘

˘

˘‹
˘




EMEA˘‹


˘
‹˘



˘

˘
˘

˘
Allowance for loan losses
˘

˘
˘
˘‹

˘
Other liabilities 

˘

˘


83The following tables detail information on Citi™s allowance for loan losses, loans and coverage ratios:December 31, 2015
In billions of dollarsAllowance for loan lossesLoans, net of unearned incomeAllowance as a percentage of loans
 (1)North America $4.5
$113.4
4.0%North America 
1.779.62.1North America 0.512.64.0
1.626.76.0
1.697.51.6Total consumer
$9.9
$329.8
3.0%Total corporate
2.7287.81.0Total Citigroup
$12.6
$617.6
2.0%˘

˘
˘
˘

North America˘

North America
North America˘

Allowance for loan losses

Allowance for loan losses


˘
‹
‹


˘
˘˜˚˛˝
In billions of dollars
North AmericaNorth America
North America

Total consumer


Total corporate
Total Citigroup


˘

˘
˘
˘

North America˘

North America
North America
˘
‹
‹


˘
84There is a certain amount of overlap among non-accrual loans and assets and renegotiated loans. The following summary provides a general 
description of each category:Non-Accrual Loans and Assets: Corporate and consumer (commercial market) non-accrual status is based on the determination that payment of interest or principal 
is doubtful. A corporate loan may be classified as non-accrual and still be performing 
under the terms of the loan structure. Payments received on corporate 
non-accrual loans are generally applied to loan principal and not 
reflected as interest income. Approximately 45% and 40% of Citi™s 
corporate non-accrual loans were performing at December 31, 2015 and 
September 30, 2015, respectively. Consumer non-accrual status is generally based on aging, i.e., the 
borrower has fallen behind on payments. Mortgage loans in regulated bank entities discharged through Chapter 7 
bankruptcy, other than FHA insured loans, are classified as non-accrual. 
Non-bank mortgage loans discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy are 
classified as non-accrual at 90 days or more past due. In addition, home 
equity loans in regulated bank entities are classified as non-accrual if the 
related residential first mortgage loan is 90 days or more past due. North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services are not included 
because, under industry standards, credit card loans accrue interest 
until such loans are charged off, which typically occurs at 180 days 
contractual delinquency.Renegotiated Loans: Includes both corporate and consumer loans whose terms have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR). Includes both accrual and non-accrual TDRs.85The table below summarizes Citigroup™s non-accrual loans as of the periods indicated. Non-accrual loans may still be current on interest payments. In 
situations where Citi reasonably expects that only a portion of the principal owed will ultimately be collected, all payments received are reflected as a 
reduction of principal and not as interest income. For all other non-accrual 
loans, cash interest receipts are generally recorded as revenue.December 31,In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛
Citicorp$3,092

Citi Holdings2,162
Total non-accrual loans
$5,254

Corporate non-accrual loans (1)(2)North America$818
˙˜˛
EMEA317
Latin America
301˛˜†
Asia128
Total corporate non-accrual loans
$1,564

$1,511

53˝˜˝
Total corporate non-accrual loans
$1,564

Consumer non-accrual loans (1)(3)North America$2,515

Latin America
876
Asia299˙˜˝˝˙˛
Total consumer non-accrual loans
$3,690

$1,581

2,109
Total consumer non-accrual loans
$3,690

˘
˘

˘

North America
˘

Loans
Other assets˘˘
Asia GCB
EMEA GCB
The changes in Citigroup™s non-accrual loans were as follows:Year ended December 31, 2015
In millions of dollarsCorporateConsumerTotal
Non-accrual loans at beginning of period$1,183$5,924$7,107
1,3185,2196,537

(222)(2,249)(2,471)

(64)(1,080)(1,144)

(459)(1,255)(1,714)

(145)(2,642)(2,787)
(47)(227)(274)
Ending balance$1,564$3,690$5,254
86The table below summarizes Citigroup™s other real estate owned (OREO) assets as of the periods indicated. This represents the carrying value of all real estate property acquired by foreclosure or other legal proceedings when Citi has taken possession of the collateral:December 31,In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛
OREO (1)Citicorp$71

Citi Holdings138˙˝˜˝˚˛
Total OREO
$209
˝˛†˝˝˚
North America$166
˝˝˛
EMEA1†˙
Latin America
38˝†˝†˝˚
Asia4˛˚˜˛
Total OREO
$209
˝˛†˝˝˚
Other repossessed assets$Š
••˛˛
Non-accrual assetsŠTotal Citigroup

$1,564

3,690
$5,254

”Žœ”$209
˝˛†˝˝˚
$5,463


0.85%

0.32

240˜˜˛˜†˜
December 31,Non-accrual assetsŠTotal Citicorp
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛
$3,092

”Žœ”71
N/Aﬁ¢…ﬁ¢…ﬁ¢…ﬁ¢…
$3,163


0.19%

343˙†˚˝˙˛
Non-accrual assetsŠTotal Citi Holdings

$2,162

”Žœ”138˙˝˜˝˚˛
N/Aﬁ¢…ﬁ¢…ﬁ¢…ﬁ¢…
$2,300


3.11%

93˛˙˛
˘

˘


˘

Loans
Other assets
87The following table presents Citi™s loans modified in TDRs.In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2015˘
˜˚˛˝Corporate renegotiated loans (1)
$25
˛˜

1045•273$407
˝˙˝

$111


33˛35$179

Total corporate renegotiated loans
$586

Consumer renegotiated loans (4)(5)(6)(7)

$7,058

1,39679$8,533



$474

555524$1,553

Total consumer renegotiated loans
$10,086

˘
‹˘
˘



‹˘




˘

‹˘

˘



˘

‹˘
˘

‹
˘
‹
˘

˘

In millions of dollarsIn U.S. 
officesIn non- U.S. 
offices2015 total

$1,155$555$1,710
691189880
Foregone interest revenue$464$366$830
˘

˘


88Adequate and diverse sources of funding and liquidity are essential to Citi™s businesses. Funding and liquidity risks arise from several factors, many of 
which are mostly or entirely outside Citi™s control, such as disruptions in the 
financial markets, changes in key funding sources, credit spreads, changes 
in Citi™s credit ratings and political and economic conditions in certain 
countries. For additional information, see ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ above.Citi™s funding and liquidity objectives are aimed at (i) funding its existing 
asset base; (ii) growing its core businesses in Citicorp; (iii) maintaining 
sufficient liquidity, structured appropriately, so that Citi can operate under 

a variety of adverse circumstances, including potential firm-specific and/or 
market liquidity events in varying durations and severity; and (iv) satisfying 
regulatory requirements. Citigroup™s primary liquidity objectives are 

established by entity, and in aggregate, across two major categories:
 Citibank; and the non-bank and other, which includes the parent holding company (Citigroup), Citi™s broker-dealer subsidiaries and other non-bank 
subsidiaries that are consolidated into Citigroup, as well as Banamex and 
Citibank (Switzerland) AG.At an aggregate level, Citigroup™s goal is to maintain sufficient funding 
in amount and tenor to fully fund customer assets and to provide an appropriate amount of cash and high-quality liquid assets (as discussed 
further below), even in times of stress. The liquidity risk management 
framework provides that certain entities be self-sufficient or net providers 
of liquidity, including in conditions established under their designated stress tests.Citi™s primary sources of funding include (i)
 deposits via Citi™s bank subsidiaries, which are Citi™s most stable and lowest cost source of long-

term funding, (ii) long-term debt (primarily senior and subordinated debt) primarily issued at the parent and certain bank subsidiaries, and 
(iii) stockholders™ equity. These sources may be supplemented by short-term borrowings, primarily in the form of secured funding transactions.As referenced above, Citigroup works to ensure that the structural tenor of these funding sources is sufficiently long in relation to the tenor of its 
asset base. The goal of Citi™s asset/liability management is to ensure that 

there is excess tenor in the liability structure relative to the liquidity profile of 
the assets. This reduces the risk that liabilities will become due before asset 
maturities or monetizations through sale, and in turn generates liquidity. 

This liquidity is held primarily in the form of high-quality liquid assets 
(HQLA), as set forth in the table below.
Citi™s Treasurer has overall responsibility for management of Citi™s HQLA. 
Citi™s liquidity is managed via a centralized treasury model by Corporate 

Treasury, in conjunction with regional and in-country treasurers. Pursuant 

to this approach, Citi™s HQLA is managed with emphasis on asset-liability 

management and entity-level liquidity adequacy throughout Citi.Citi™s Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the overall risk profile of Citi™s 
HQLA. The Chief Risk Officer and Citi™s CFO co-chair Citi™s Asset Liability 

Management Committee (ALCO), which includes Citi™s Treasurer and 

other senior executives. ALCO sets the strategy of the liquidity portfolio and 
monitors its performance. Significant changes to portfolio asset allocations 
need to be approved by ALCO.CitibankNon-Bank and Other
(1)Total
In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2015˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˆ
Dec. 31, 
2015˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆ
ˆ
Dec. 31, 
2015˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˆ

$52.4

$16.9

$69.3


110.1
32.4
142.4

63.8
1.0
64.9
84.8
14.9
99.7

1.0
1.2
2.2
Total
$312.1

$66.4

$378.5

ˆ

ˆ


ˆ“ˆ‹


89As set forth in the table above, Citi™s HQLA decreased both year-over-year 
as well as sequentially, driven primarily by reductions in long-term debt 
and short-term borrowings, as discussed further under ﬁSecured Funding 
Transactions and Short-Term Borrowingsﬂ below.
Citi™s HQLA as set forth above does not include Citi™s available borrowing 
capacity from the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLB) of which Citi is a 
member, which was approximately $36
 billion as of December 31, 2015 (unchanged from September 30, 2015 and compared to $26 billion as of 
December 31, 2014) and maintained by eligible collateral pledged to such 
banks. The HQLA also does not include Citi™s borrowing capacity at the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank discount window or other central banks, which would 
be in addition to the resources noted above.In general, Citi™s liquidity is fungible across legal entities within its 
bank group. Citi™s bank subsidiaries, including Citibank, can lend to the 

Citi parent and broker-dealer entities in accordance with Section
 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. As of December 31, 2015, the capacity available for 
lending to these entities under Section 23A was approximately $17 billion, largely unchanged from prior periods, subject to certain eligible non-cash 
collateral requirements.As part of its funding and liquidity objectives, Citi seeks to fund its existing 
asset base appropriately as well as maintain sufficient liquidity to grow its 
core businesses in Citicorp, including its loan portfolio. Citi maintains a 
diversified portfolio of loans to its consumer and institutional clients. The 
table below sets forth the end-of-period loans, by business and/or segment, 
and the total average loans for each of the periods indicated:In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2015˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˆ
Global Consumer BankingNorth America$165.1

Latin America
31.5
Asiaˆ88.7
Total
$285.3

Institutional Clients Group
114.9
œ
71.3

101.3
Total
$287.5

Total Citicorp
572.8
œ
44.8
Total Citigroup loans (EOP)
$617.6

œ
$625.1

ˆ
EMEA GCBˆ‹
End-of-period loans declined 4% year-over-year and 1% quarter-over-
quarter. Excluding the impact of FX translation, Citigroup™s end-of-period 

loans decreased 1% both year-over-year and sequentially, in each case driven 

by continued overall declines in Citi Holdings.Excluding the impact of FX translation, Citicorp loans increased 5% year-over-year. 
GCB loans grew 2% year-over-year, driven by 3% growth in 

North America. ICG loans increased 8% year-over-year. Within 
ICG, corporate 
loans increased 9% driven by both new business and the funding of prior 
commitments. Treasury and trade solutions loans declined 3%, as Citi 

continued to distribute a significant portion of its trade loan originations, 
which allows it to support its clients while maintaining balance sheet 
discipline in a continued low spread environment. Private bank, markets and 
securities services and other loans grew 14% year-over-year.
Citi Holdings loans decreased 43% year-over-year driven by over $21 
billion of reductions in North America mortgages, including transfers to 
held-for-sale (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), as well 

as the sale of OneMain Financial, which was completed during the fourth 
quarter of 2015.Deposits are Citi™s primary and lowest cost funding source. The table below 
sets forth the end-of-period deposits, by business and/or segment, and the 
total average deposits for each of the periods indicated:In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2015˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˆ
Global Consumer BankingNorth America$172.8

Latin America
40.8
Asia 87.8
Total
$301.4

Institutional Clients Groupœ
392.2
118.8
Markets and securities services
76.3
Total
$587.3

Corporate/Other
12.1
Total Citicorp
$900.8

œ
7.1
Total Citigroup deposits (EOP)
$907.9

œ
$908.8

ˆ
EMEA GCBˆ‹
90End-of-period deposits increased 1% year-over-year and remained 
relatively unchanged quarter-over-quarter. Excluding the impact of FX 
translation, Citigroup™s end-of-period deposits increased 4% year-over-year 

and 1% sequentially, despite significant reductions in Citi Holdings deposits 

from the prior-year period.
Excluding the impact of FX translation, Citicorp deposits grew 5% year-
over-year. Within Citicorp, 
GCB deposits increased 2% year-over-year, driven 

by 5% growth in international deposits. ICG deposits increased 9% year-over-

year, with continued deposit growth in treasury and trade solutions and the 

private bank.The decline in Citi Holdings deposits from the prior-year period was 
primarily driven by the now-complete transfer of Morgan Stanley Smith 
Barney (MSSB) deposits to Morgan Stanley.
Citi monitors its deposit base across multiple dimensions, including what Citi refers to as ﬁLCR valueﬂ or the liquidity value of the deposit base under 
the U.S. LCR rules (as discussed under ﬁShort-Term Liquidity Measurement: 

Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)ﬂ below). Citi defines the liquidity value of 
deposits as the percentage of deposits assumed to remain following a 30-day 
period of liquidity stress. As discussed below, under the LCR rules, deposits are 

assigned liquidity values based on expected behavior under stress, determined 
by the type of deposit and the type of client. Generally, the LCR rules prioritize 

transactional and operating accounts of consumers (including retail and 
commercial banking deposits) and corporations respectively, while assigning 

lower liquidity values to non-operating deposit balances of financial 
institutions. As of December 31, 2015, Citi™s total deposits had an aggregate 

liquidity value of approximately 73%, down slightly sequentially and 
unchanged from December 31, 2014. Within the 73% total liquidity value as 
of year-end 2015, Citi™s 
GCB deposits had a liquidity value of approximately 
87% and ICG deposits, including Corporate/Other, had a liquidity value of 
approximately 66%.Long-term debt (generally defined as debt with original maturities of one 
year or more) represents the most significant component of Citi™s funding 
for the parent entities and is a supplementary source of funding for the 
bank entities.Long-term debt is an important funding source due in part to its multi-year contractual maturity structure. The weighted-average maturities 
of unsecured long-term debt issued by Citigroup and its affiliates (including 
Citibank) with a remaining life greater than one year (excluding remaining 
trust preferred securities outstanding) was approximately 6.9 years as of December 31, 2015, unchanged from the prior-year period and a slight increase sequentially, due in part to the issuance of longer-dated debt 

securities and the redemption of shorter-dated debt securities during the 

fourth quarter of 2015.Citi™s long-term debt outstanding at the parent includes senior and 
subordinated debt and what Citi refers to as customer-related debt, consisting 

of structured notes, such as equity- and credit-linked notes, as well as non-
structured notes. Citi™s issuance of customer-related debt is generally driven 
by customer demand and supplements benchmark debt issuance as a source 
of funding for Citi™s parent entities. Citi™s long-term debt at the bank also 

includes FHLB advances and securitizations.Long-Term Debt OutstandingThe following table sets forth Citi™s total long-term debt outstanding for the 
periods indicated:In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2015˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˆ
Parent
$90.3


26.9
œ
1.7

21.8
3.0

2.4
Total parent
$146.1

Bank
$17.8


30.9

6.5
Total bank
$55.2

Total long-term debt
$201.3

ˆˆ
‹
ˆ

ˆ

Citi™s total long-term debt outstanding decreased both year-over-year 
and quarter-over-quarter, primarily due to significant buybacks of senior 

and subordinated debt at the parent level during the fourth quarter of 2015 
(discussed below), as well as continued reductions in securitizations at the 
bank entities.As part of its liability management, Citi has considered, and may continue to consider, opportunities to repurchase its long-term debt pursuant to 

open market purchases, tender offers or other means. Such repurchases 
help reduce Citi™s overall funding costs and assist it in meeting regulatory 

changes and requirements. During 2015, Citi repurchased an aggregate of 
approximately $21.1 billion of its outstanding long-term debt, including 
early redemptions of FHLB advances. Of this amount, approximately 
$11.5 billion was repurchased in the fourth quarter of 2015 as Citi completed 
significant asset sales in Citi Holdings, including the OneMain Financial 
business. Accordingly, while Citi anticipates continued liability management 

activities in 2016, it does not currently expect repurchases to remain at the 
level experienced in 2015.91Long-Term Debt Issuances and MaturitiesThe table below details Citi™s long-term debt issuances and maturities (including repurchases and redemptions) during the periods presented:2015In billions of dollarsMaturitiesIssuances

Parent
$23.9$20.2


4.07.5
œ
ŠŠ¡¡

7.79.1
2.20.4

0.41.9¡
Total parent
$38.2$39.1

Bank$4.0$2.0


7.90.8

2.82.7ˇ˙ˇ
Total bank
$14.7$5.5

Total
$52.9$44.6

The table below shows Citi™s aggregate long-term debt maturities (including repurchases and redemptions) in 2015, as well as its aggregate expected annual long-term debt maturities as of December 31, 2015:In billions of dollarsMaturities 201520162017201820192020ThereafterTotal
Parent
$23.9


4.0¡
œ
Š¡¡¡¡¡

7.7
2.2ˇ˙˘

0.4˘˙ˇ˘˙ˇ¡
Total parent
$38.2

Bank
$4.0
¡¡¡

7.9

2.8˘˙ˇ
Total bank
$14.7

Total long-term debt
$52.9

92Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)In November 2015, the Federal Reserve Board issued a notice of proposed 
rulemaking that would impose minimum loss-absorbing capacity and 
long-term debt requirements on global systemically important bank holding 
companies (GSIBs), including Citi, the intended purpose of which would be 
to facilitate the orderly resolution of U.S. GSIBs under the U.S. Bankruptcy 
Code and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act. There are significant uncertainties 
and interpretive issues arising from the Federal Reserve Board™s proposal. For 
additional information, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠLiquidity Risksﬂ above. For an 
additional discussion of the method 1 and method 2 GSIB capital surcharge 
methodology as well as other regulatory capital aspects of the TLAC proposal, 
see ﬁCapital Resourcesﬂ above.Pursuant to the proposal, U.S. GSIBs would be required to issue and maintain minimum levels of external TLAC and eligible long-term debt 
(LTD), each set by reference to the GSIB™s consolidated risk-weighted assets 

(RWA) and total leverage exposure. The proposed minimum external TLAC 

requirement would be the greater of (i) 18% of the GSIB™s RWA plus the 

applicable external TLAC buffer and (ii) 9.5% of its total leverage exposure. 
The applicable external TLAC buffer equals the 2.5% capital conservation 
buffer, plus any applicable countercyclical capital buffer, plus the GSIB™s 

capital surcharge as determined under method 1 of the GSIB surcharge rule. 
Accordingly, Citi™s total estimated current TLAC requirement would be 22.5% 

of RWA under the proposal. Breach of the proposed external TLAC buffer 

would subject the GSIB to restrictions on distributions and discretionary 
bonus payments. The proposed minimum external LTD requirement would 

be the greater of (i) 6% of the GSIB™s RWA plus its capital surcharge as 

determined under method 2 of the GSIB surcharge rule, for a total estimated 
current requirement of 9% of RWA for Citi and (ii) 4.5% of the GSIB™s total 

leverage exposure.As proposed, external TLAC would generally include (i) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Additional Tier 1 Capital issued directly by the bank 

holding company plus (ii) eligible external LTD. Eligible external LTD, 

which is a subcategory of external TLAC, would include unsecured, ﬁplain 
vanillaﬂ debt securities (i.e., would not include structured notes or securities 
containing derivative-linked features) issued directly by the bank holding 
company, governed by U.S. law and with a remaining maturity greater than 

one year. Further, pursuant to what has been referred to as the ﬁhaircutﬂ 

provision, otherwise eligible external LTD with a remaining maturity of less 

than two years would be subject to a 50% haircut for purposes of meeting the 
minimum external LTD requirement. In addition, otherwise eligible external 

LTD which provides for acceleration of the payment of principal and interest 

other than upon the occurrence of insolvency or non-payment would not be 
eligible LTD. 
Designed to further enhance the resolvability of a U.S. GSIB, the proposal would also prohibit or limit certain financial arrangements at the bank 
holding company level, or what are referred to as ﬁclean holding companyﬂ 
requirements. Pursuant to these requirements, the bank holding company would be prohibited from having certain types of third-party liabilities, 
including short-term debt, derivatives and other qualified financial 
contracts, liabilities guaranteed by a subsidiary (i.e., upstream guarantees) 
and guarantees of subsidiary liabilities or similar arrangements if the 
liability or guarantee includes a default right linked to the insolvency of 
the bank holding company (i.e., downstream guarantees with cross default 
provisions). In addition, the clean holding company requirements would 
limit the third-party, non-contingent liabilities of the bank holding company 

that are not related to TLAC or LTD and are pari passu with or junior to 

eligible external LTD, including structured notes and various operating 

liabilities, to 5% of the U.S. GSIB™s outstanding external TLAC.
The proposal would further require that U.S. GSIBs deduct from their regulatory capital any investment in unsecured debt issued by GSIBs in 
excess of certain thresholds. This deduction would be required regardless of 
the tenor of the instrument and regardless of whether the debt instrument 
would qualify as eligible external LTD.
While not included in its proposed requirements, the Federal Reserve Board also indicated in its notice of proposed rulemaking that it was 
considering imposing ﬁdomestic internal TLACﬂ requirements for the 
material operating subsidiaries of U.S. GSIBs. The Board indicated any 
such requirements would be designed to, among other things, require the 
maintenance of ﬁcontributable resourcesﬂ (in the form of high-quality liquid 
assets) at the bank holding company and/or ﬁprepositioned resourcesﬂ at the 
level of the material operating subsidiaries (in the form of debt and equity 
investments in the subsidiaries).The proposed effective date for the requirements included in the proposal would be January 1, 2019, with the exception of the RWA component of the 

external TLAC requirement, which would be 16% as of January 1, 2019 and 
would increase to 18% on January 1, 2022.
As referenced above, Citi supplements its primary sources of funding with 
short-term borrowings. Short-term borrowings generally include (i) secured funding transactions (securities loaned or sold under agreements to 
repurchase, or repos) and (ii) to a lesser extent, short-term borrowings consisting of commercial paper and borrowings from the FHLB and other 
market participants (see Note
 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for 
further information on Citigroup™s and its affiliates™ outstanding short-term 
borrowings). Citi has purposefully reduced its other short-term borrowings, 
including FHLB borrowings, as it continued to grow its high-quality deposits.Secured FundingSecured funding is primarily accessed through Citi™s broker-dealer 
subsidiaries to fund efficiently both secured lending activity and a portion 
of securities inventory held in the context of market making and customer 
activities. Citi also executes a smaller portion of its secured funding 
transactions through its bank entities, which is typically collateralized by 93foreign government debt securities. Generally, daily changes in the level of Citi™s secured funding are primarily due to fluctuations in secured lending 
activity in the matched book (as described below) and securities inventory.Secured funding of $146 billion as of December 31, 2015 declined 16% from the prior-year period and 13% sequentially. Excluding the impact of FX 

translation, secured funding decreased 11% from the prior-year period and 

12% sequentially, both driven by normal business activity. Average balances 

for secured funding were approximately $163 billion for the quarter ended 
December 31, 2015.The portion of secured funding in the broker-dealer subsidiaries that 
funds secured lending is commonly referred to as ﬁmatched bookﬂ activity. 

The majority of this activity is secured by high quality, liquid securities such 

as U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. agency securities and foreign government 

debt securities. Other secured funding is secured by less liquid securities, 
including equity securities, corporate bonds and asset-backed securities. The 
tenor of Citi™s matched book liabilities is generally equal to or longer than 

the tenor of the corresponding matched book assets.The remainder of the secured funding activity in the broker-dealer 
subsidiaries serves to fund securities inventory held in the context of market 
making and customer activities. To maintain reliable funding under a wide 

range of market conditions, including under periods of stress, Citi manages 
these activities by taking into consideration the quality of the underlying 
collateral, and stipulating financing tenor. The weighted average maturity 

of Citi™s secured funding of less liquid securities inventory was greater than 

110 days as of December 31, 2015.Citi manages the risks in its secured funding by conducting daily stress tests to account for changes in capacity, tenors, haircut, collateral profile and 

client actions. Additionally, Citi maintains counterparty diversification by 

establishing concentration triggers and assessing counterparty reliability and 
stability under stress. Citi generally sources secured funding from more than 
150 counterparties.The following table contains the year-end, average and maximum month-end amounts for the following respective short-term borrowings categories at the 
end of each of the three prior fiscal years:Federal funds purchased and 
securities sold under agreements to repurchaseShort-term borrowingsˆ(1…Commercial paperˆ(2)Other short-term borrowingsˆ(3)In billions of dollars2015
2015
2015

$146.5

$10.0

$11.1


174.5
10.7
22.2
186.2
15.3
41.9
Weighted-average interest rate
0.93%
0.31%
1.42%
0.59
0.22
1.50
ˆ˙
ˆ

‡ˇ…ˆˆ

ˆ

ˆ
“ˆ˚‹
ˆ

94Stress TestingLiquidity stress testing is performed for each of Citi™s major entities, operating 
subsidiaries and/or countries. Stress testing and scenario analyses are 
intended to quantify the potential impact of a liquidity event on the balance 
sheet and liquidity position, and to identify viable funding alternatives that 
can be utilized. These scenarios include assumptions about significant 
changes in key funding sources, market triggers (such as credit ratings), 
potential uses of funding and political and economic conditions in certain 
countries. These conditions include expected and stressed market conditions 
as well as Company-specific events.Liquidity stress tests are conducted to ascertain potential mismatches between liquidity sources and uses over a variety of time horizons (overnight, 
one week, two weeks, one month, three months, one year) and over a variety 
of stressed conditions. Liquidity limits are set accordingly. To monitor 

the liquidity of an entity, these stress tests and potential mismatches are 

calculated with varying frequencies, with several tests performed daily.
Given the range of potential stresses, Citi maintains a series of contingency funding plans on a consolidated basis and for individual 
entities. These plans specify a wide range of readily available actions for a 
variety of adverse market conditions or idiosyncratic stresses.Short-Term Liquidity Measurement: Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)
In addition to internal measures that Citi has developed for a 30-day stress 
scenario, Citi also monitors its liquidity by reference to the LCR, as calculated 
pursuant to the U.S. LCR rules.Generally, the LCR is designed to ensure that banks maintain an adequate 
level of HQLA to meet liquidity needs under an acute 30-day stress scenario. 
The LCR is calculated by dividing HQLA by estimated net outflows over 
a stressed 30-day period, with the net outflows determined by applying 
prescribed outflow factors to various categories of liabilities, such as deposits, 
unsecured and secured wholesale borrowings, unused lending commitments 
and derivatives-related exposures, partially offset by inflows from assets 
maturing within 30 days. Banks are required to calculate an add-on to 
address potential maturity mismatches between contractual cash outflows 
and inflows within the 30-day period in determining the total amount of net 
outflows. The minimum LCR requirement is 90% effective January 2016, 
increasing to 100% in January 2017.The table below sets forth the components of Citi™s LCR calculation and 
HQLA in excess of net outflows as of the periods indicated:In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2015˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˆ
$378.5


336.5
Žﬂ¤112%

$42.0

As set forth in the table above, Citi™s LCR was unchanged both year-over-
year and quarter-over-quarter, as the reduction in Citi™s HQLA was offset by a 

reduction in net outflows, reflecting reductions in Citi™s long-term debt and 

short-term borrowings.Long-Term Liquidity Measurement: Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR)
For 12-month liquidity stress periods, Citi uses several measures, including 
its internal long-term liquidity measure, based on a 12-month scenario 
assuming deterioration due to a combination of idiosyncratic and market 
stresses of moderate to high severity. It is broadly defined as the ratio of 
unencumbered liquidity resources to net stressed cumulative outflows over a 
12-month period.In addition, in October 2014, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee) issued final standards for the implementation 

of the Basel III NSFR, with full compliance required by January 1, 2018. 
Similar to Citi™s internal long-term liquidity measure, the NSFR is intended 

to measure the stability of a banking organization™s funding over a one-year 

time horizon. Pursuant to the Basel Committee™s final standards, the NSFR 

is calculated by dividing the level of a bank™s available stable funding by its 

required stable funding. The ratio is required to be greater than 100%. Under 
the Basel Committee standards, available stable funding primarily includes 
portions of equity, deposits and long-term debt, while required stable funding 

primarily includes the portion of long-term assets which are deemed illiquid. 
The U.S. banking agencies have not yet proposed the U.S. version of the 
NSFR, although a proposal is expected during 2016.95Citigroup™s funding and liquidity, its funding capacity, ability to access capital markets and other sources of funds, the cost of these funds, and 
its ability to maintain certain deposits are partially dependent on its 
credit ratings.The table below sets forth the ratings for Citigroup and Citibank as of December 31, 2015. While not included in the table below, the long-term and short-term ratings of Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (CGMI) were A/A-1 at Standard & Poor™s and A+/F1 at Fitch as of December 31, 2015. The long-term and short-term ratings of Citigroup Global Markets Holdings 
Inc. (CGMHI) were BBB+/A-2 at Standard & Poor™s and A/F1 at Fitch as of December 31, 2015.Citigroup Inc.Citibank, N.A.
Senior  
debtCommercial  
paperOutlook
Long- termShort- termOutlook

AF1StableA+F1Stable

Baa1P-2StableA1P-1Stable
ˆBBB+A-2StableAA-1Watch Positive
Recent Credit Rating Developments
On December 8, 2015, Fitch affirmed Citigroup Inc.™s Viability Rating (VR) 
and Long-Term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at ‚a/A™, respectively. At the 
same time, Fitch affirmed Citibank™s VR and IDR at ‚a/A+™, respectively. The 
outlooks for the Long-Term IDRs are stable.On December 2, 2015, as expected, S&P downgraded the holding company 
ratings of all eight U.S. GSIBs, including Citigroup Inc., by one notch, 
reflecting its view of the likelihood of extraordinary government support to 
be ﬁuncertain.ﬂ As a result, Citigroup Inc.™s long-term rating now stands 

at BBB+ and the outlook was upgraded to ﬁStable.ﬂ The short-term rating 
of Citigroup Inc. remained at A-2. The operating company ratings of the 
GSIBs, including Citibank, N.A. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., remained 
unchanged, with a ﬁWatch Positiveﬂ outlook, as S&P waits for further clarity 

from the regulators regarding TLAC eligibility of certain instruments. S&P 
has stated it expects to conclude its credit watch within the first half of 2016.Potential Impacts of Ratings DowngradesRatings downgrades by Moody™s, Fitch or S&P could negatively impact 
Citigroup™s and/or Citibank™s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding 
capacity, including derivatives triggers, which could take the form of cash 
obligations and collateral requirements.The following information is provided for the purpose of analyzing the potential funding and liquidity impact to Citigroup and Citibank of 
a hypothetical, simultaneous ratings downgrade across all three major 
rating agencies. This analysis is subject to certain estimates, estimation 
methodologies, and judgments and uncertainties. Uncertainties include potential ratings limitations that certain entities may have with respect 
to permissible counterparties, as well as general subjective counterparty 
behavior. For example, certain corporate customers and markets 

counterparties could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and 
limit transactions in certain contracts or market instruments with Citi. 
Changes in counterparty behavior could impact Citi™s funding and liquidity, 

as well as the results of operations of certain of its businesses. The actual 
impact to Citigroup or Citibank is unpredictable and may differ materially 
from the potential funding and liquidity impacts described below. For 

additional information on the impact of credit rating changes on Citi and its 
applicable subsidiaries, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠLiquidity Risksﬂ above.Citigroup Inc. and CitibankŠPotential Derivative TriggersAs of December 31, 2015, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citigroup Inc. across all three major rating agencies could impact Citigroup™s funding and 
liquidity due to derivative triggers by approximately $0.6 billion, compared 
to $0.7 billion as of September 30, 2015. Other funding sources, such as securities financing transactions and other margin requirements, for which 
there are no explicit triggers, could also be adversely affected.As of December 31, 2015, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citibank across all three 
major rating agencies could impact Citibank™s funding and liquidity by approximately $1.3 billion, compared to $1.5 billion as of September 30, 2015, due to derivative triggers.96In total, Citi estimates that a one-notch downgrade of Citigroup and Citibank, across all three major rating agencies, could result in aggregate cash obligations and collateral requirements of approximately $1.9 billion, 
compared to $2.2 billion as of September 30, 2015 (see also Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). As set forth under ﬁHigh-Quality 
Liquid Assetsﬂ above, the liquidity resources of Citibank were approximately 
$312 billion and the liquidity resources of Citi™s non-bank and other entities were approximately $66 billion, for a total of approximately $379 billion as of December 31, 2015. These liquidity resources are available in part as a contingency for the potential events described above.In addition, a broad range of mitigating actions are currently included in Citigroup™s and Citibank™s contingency funding plans. For Citigroup, 
these mitigating factors include, but are not limited to, accessing surplus 
funding capacity from existing clients, tailoring levels of secured lending, 
and adjusting the size of select trading books and collateralized borrowings 
from certain Citibank subsidiaries. Mitigating actions available to Citibank 
include, but are not limited to, selling or financing highly liquid government 
securities, tailoring levels of secured lending, adjusting the size of select 
trading assets, reducing loan originations and renewals, raising additional 
deposits, or borrowing from the FHLB or central banks. Citi believes these 
mitigating actions could substantially reduce the funding and liquidity risk, 
if any, of the potential downgrades described above.
CitibankŠAdditional Potential Impacts
In addition to the above derivative triggers, Citi believes that a potential one-
notch downgrade of Citibank™s senior debt/long-term rating by S&P could 
also have an adverse impact on the commercial paper/short-term rating of 
Citibank. As of December 31, 2015, Citibank had liquidity commitments of approximately $10.0 billion to consolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits, compared to $9.4 billion as of September 30, 2015 (as referenced in 
Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).In addition to the above-referenced liquidity resources of certain Citibank and Banamex entities, Citibank could reduce the funding and liquidity 
risk, if any, of the potential downgrades described above through mitigating actions, including repricing or reducing certain commitments to commercial 
paper conduits. In the event of the potential downgrades described above, 
Citi believes that certain corporate customers could re-evaluate their deposit 
relationships with Citibank. This re-evaluation could result in clients 
adjusting their discretionary deposit levels or changing their depository 
institution, which could potentially reduce certain deposit levels at Citibank. 
However, Citi could choose to adjust pricing, offer alternative deposit products 

to its existing customers or seek to attract deposits from new customers, in 
addition to the mitigating actions referenced above.97Market risk is the potential for losses arising from changes in the value of Citi™s assets and liabilities resulting from changes in market variables such 
as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices and 
credit spreads, as well as their implied volatilities.Each business is required to establish, with approval from Citi™s market 
risk management, a market risk limit framework for identified risk factors 
that clearly defines approved risk profiles and is within the parameters 
of Citi™s overall risk appetite. These limits are monitored by the Risk 

organization, Citi™s country and business Asset and Liability Committees and 

the Citigroup Asset and Liability Committee. In all cases, the businesses are 
ultimately responsible for the market risks taken and for remaining within 
their defined limits.Market risk emanates from both Citi™s trading and non-trading portfolios. 
Trading portfolios comprise all assets and liabilities marked-to-market, with 

results reflected in earnings. Non-trading portfolios include all other assets 
and liabilities.Market risk from non-trading portfolios stems from the potential impact of 
changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates on Citi™s net interest 
revenues, the changes in Accumulated other comprehensive income 
(loss) (AOCI) from its investment portfolios and capital invested in 
foreign currencies.Net interest revenue, for interest rate exposure purposes, is the difference 
between the yield earned on the non-trading portfolio assets (including 
customer loans) and the rate paid on the liabilities (including customer 
deposits or company borrowings). Net interest revenue is affected by changes 
in the level of interest rates, as well as the amounts of assets and liabilities, 
and the timing of repricing of assets and liabilities to reflect market rates.Citi™s principal measure of risk to net interest revenue is interest rate 
exposure (IRE). IRE measures the change in expected net interest revenue 
in each currency resulting solely from unanticipated changes in forward 
interest rates.Citi™s estimated IRE incorporates various assumptions including 
prepayment rates on loans, customer behavior, and the impact of pricing 

decisions. For example, in rising interest rate scenarios, portions of the 
deposit portfolio may be assumed to experience rate increases that are less 
than the change in market interest rates. In declining interest rate scenarios, 
it is assumed that mortgage portfolios experience higher prepayment rates. 
IRE assumes that businesses and/or Citi Treasury make no additional 

changes in balances or positioning in response to the unanticipated 
rate changes.In order to manage changes in interest rates effectively, Citi may modify 
pricing on new customer loans and deposits, purchase fixed rate securities, 
issue debt that is either fixed or floating or enter into derivative transactions 
that have the opposite risk exposures. Citi regularly assesses the viability of 
these and other strategies to reduce its interest rate risks and implements such strategies when it believes those actions are prudent.Citi manages interest rate risk as a consolidated company-wide position. Citi™s client-facing businesses create interest-rate sensitive positions, 

including loans and deposits, as part of their ongoing activities. Citi Treasury 

aggregates these risk positions and manages them centrally. Operating within 

established limits, Citi Treasury makes positioning decisions and uses tools, 

such as Citi™s investment securities portfolio, company-issued debt, and 

interest rate derivatives, to target the desired risk profile. Changes in Citi™s 

interest rate risk position reflect the accumulated changes in all non-trading 
assets and liabilities, with potentially large and offsetting impacts, as well as 
Citi Treasury™s positioning decisions.
Citigroup employs additional measurements, including stress testing the impact of non-linear interest rate movements on the value of the balance 
sheet; the analysis of portfolio duration and volatility, particularly as they 

relate to mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities; and the potential 
impact of the change in the spread between different market indices.
Citi also measures the potential impacts of changes in interest rates on the 
value of its AOCI, which can in turn impact Citi™s Common Equity Tier 1 
Capital ratio. Citi™s goal is to benefit from an increase in the market level of 
interest rates, while limiting the impact of changes in AOCI on its regulatory 
capital position.AOCI at risk is managed as part of the company-wide interest rate risk position. AOCI at risk considers potential changes in AOCI (and the 
corresponding impact on the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio) relative to 

Citi™s capital generation capacity.
98The following table sets forth the estimated impact to Citi™s net interest revenue, AOCI and the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio (on a fully implemented 
basis), each assuming an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 100 basis point increase in interest rates.In millions of dollars (unless otherwise noted)Dec. 31, 
2015˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆ
ˆ
Estimated annualized impact to net interest revenue
$1,419

635
œ
$2,054


0.13%

$(4,837)

œ
ˆ‡ˇ…(57)
ˆ
“ˆ
ˆ

ˆ

‡ˇ…ˆ
œˆ
The sequential decrease in the estimated impact to net interest revenue primarily reflected Citi Treasury actions, offset by an increase in certain 

of Citi™s deposit balances and an increasing capital base. The sequential 

increase in the estimated impact to AOCI and the Common Equity Tier 1 

Capital ratio primarily reflected changes in the composition of Citi Treasury™s 

investment and interest rate derivatives portfolio.In the event of an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 100 basis point increase in interest rates, Citi expects the negative impact to AOCI would 
be offset in shareholders™ equity through the combination of expected incremental net interest revenue and the expected recovery of the impact on 
AOCI through accretion of Citi™s investment portfolio over a period of time. 

As of December 31, 2015, Citi expects that the negative $4.8 billion impact 
to AOCI in such a scenario could potentially be offset over approximately 
22 months.The following table sets forth the estimated impact to Citi™s net interest 
revenue, AOCI and the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio (on a fully 

implemented basis) under four different changes in interest rate scenarios for 
the U.S. dollar and Citi™s other currencies.
In millions of dollars (unless otherwise noted)Scenario 1Scenario 2Scenario 3Scenario 4


¡¡
¡
Estimated annualized impact to net interest revenue



œ



œ

“˙˝˚•˙

ˆ

ˆ
œ˝˚•ˆ
As shown in the table above, the magnitude of the impact to Citi™s net 
interest revenue and AOCI is greater under scenario 2 as compared to 
scenario 3. This is because the combination of changes to Citi™s investment 

portfolio, partially offset by changes related to Citi™s pension liabilities, results 

in a net position that is more sensitive to rates at shorter and intermediate 
term maturities.99
As of December 31, 2015, Citi estimates that an unanticipated parallel 
instantaneous 5% appreciation of the U.S. dollar against all of the other 
currencies in which Citi has invested capital could reduce Citi™s tangible 
common equity (TCE) by approximately $1.5 billion, or 0.8% of TCE, as a 
result of changes to Citi™s foreign currency translation adjustment in AOCI, 
net of hedges. This impact would be primarily due to changes in the value of 
the Mexican peso, the Euro, the British pound sterling and the Chinese yuan.This impact is also before any mitigating actions Citi may take, including ongoing management of its foreign currency translation 
exposure. Specifically, as currency movements change the value of Citi™s net 

investments in foreign-currency-denominated capital, these movements 
also change the value of Citi™s risk-weighted assets denominated in those 

currencies. This, coupled with Citi™s foreign currency hedging strategies, such 

as foreign currency borrowings, foreign currency forwards and other currency 

hedging instruments, lessens the impact of foreign currency movements 
on Citi™s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio. Changes in these hedging 

strategies, as well as hedging costs, divestitures and tax impacts, can further 
impact the actual impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on Citi™s 

capital as compared to an unanticipated parallel shock, as described above.The effect of Citi™s ongoing management strategies with respect to 
changes in foreign exchange rates and the impact of these changes on 
Citi™s TCE and Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio are shown in the table 

below. For additional information in the changes in AOCI, see Note 20 to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements.For the quarter endedIn millions of dollars (unless otherwise noted)Dec. 31, 
2015˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˆ
˝˚
(1.1)%

$(696)

œﬂ¦
(0.4)%
œˆˆ
Š
ˆ

100
1Q132Q13
2013: 2.85%2014: 2.90%2015: 2.93%3Q134Q131Q142Q143Q144Q141Q152Q153Q154Q15
0.50%1.00%1.50%
2.00%
2.50%
3.00%
3.50%
4.00%
4.50%In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Change 2015 vs. 2014

$59,040

(5)%
11,921
(13)$47,119

(3)%

3.68%
(4)bps

0.95
(7)bps

2.93
3bps
Interest-rate benchmarksšš
0.69%
23bps
š
2.14
(40)bps

145bps

Net interest revenue
‡

Long-term debt
Principal transactionsCiti™s net interest margin (NIM) is calculated by dividing gross interest 
revenue less gross interest expense by average interest earning assets. Citi™s 
NIM was 2.92% in the fourth quarter of 2015, a slight decrease from 2.94% 
in the third quarter of 2015, and improved to 2.93% for the full year 2015, 
compared to 2.90% in 2014. The improvement in Citi™s NIM for the full 
year 2015 was driven by trading NIM and the impact of lower cost of funds, 
primarily declines in the cost of long-term debt, partially offset by lower loan 
yields. Going into 2016, Citi™s NIM will reflect the sale of OneMain Financial, 
which will be partially offset by the benefit of debt repurchases during 2015, 
including in the fourth quarter of 2015. Accordingly, Citi currently expects a 
decrease in its NIM in the first half of 2016.As noted in the tables above, Citi™s interest expense includes the impact 
of FDIC deposit insurance assessments. As part of the Dodd-Frank Act, the 
FDIC is required to ensure that its deposit insurance fund reserve ratio 
reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the 
FDIC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that would impose on insured 
depository institutions with at least $10 billion in assets (large banks), 
which includes Citibank, a surcharge of 4.5 basis points per annum until 
the fund reaches the required ratio, which the FDIC estimates would take 
approximately two years. Based on its current assessment base, Citi estimates 
the net impact to Citibank would be approximately $500 million over the 
two-year period. As part of its proposed rulemaking, the FDIC also discussed 
an alternative to the surcharge proposal which would impose a one-time 
assessment, similar to a shortfall assessment, on large banks in order to 101reach the 1.35% target. As discussed by the FDIC, this shortfall assessment would be approximately 12 basis points on the then-current assessment 
base in the quarter determined by the FDIC. If the FDIC were to adopt this 
approach, Citi estimates the net impact to Citibank would be approximately 
$900 million, based on its current assessment base. As an alternative to either 
of the proposals put forth by the FDIC, in commenting on the FDIC™s notice 
of proposed rulemaking, industry groups recommended that in lieu of any 
surcharge on large banks, the FDIC maintain the assessment rate framework 
in effect as of year-end 2015 until the reserve ratio reaches 1.35%, which 

would be expected to occur by year-end 2019 (and within the timeframe 

required under the Dodd-Frank Act). It is not certain when the FDIC™s 

proposal will be finalized and what the ultimate impact will be to Citi.Average Balances and Interest RatesŠAssets (1)(2)(3)(4)Average volume
Interest revenue% Average rate
In millions of dollars, except rates
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
AssetsDeposits with banks (5)$133,790

$727

0.54%
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed 
or purchased under agreements to resell (6)
$150,359

$1,211

0.81%

84,006
1,305
1.55
š
$234,365

$2,516

1.07%
Trading account assets 
(7)(8)
$114,639

$3,945

3.44%

103,348
2,141
2.07
š
$217,987

$6,086

2.79%
Investments

š
$214,714

$3,812

1.78%

20,034
443
2.21

102,376
3,071
3.00
š
$337,124

$7,326

2.17%
Loans (net of unearned income) (9)
$354,439

$24,558

6.93%

273,072
15,988
5.85
š
$627,511

$40,546

6.46%
Other interest-earning assets (10)$55,060

$1,839

3.34%
š
$1,605,837

$59,040

3.68%
$218,000

š
Š“
Total assets
$1,823,837

Net interest revenue
‡






Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations


⁄
‹˘
⁄
⁄—ˆ

Interest revenue


Non-interest-earning assetsOther non-interest-bearing liabilities
Interest expenseTrading account liabilities
ICGInterestrevenueInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets
Trading account liabilities
‡

102Average Balances and Interest RatesŠLiabilities and Equity, and Net Interest Revenue (1)(2)(3)(4)Average volume
Interest expense
% Average rate
In millions of dollars, except rates
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
LiabilitiesDeposits
$273,122

$1,291

0.47%

425,053
3,761
0.88
š
$698,175

$5,052

0.72%
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned 
or sold under agreements to repurchase (7)
$108,286

$721

0.67%

66,200
893
1.35
š
$174,486

$1,614

0.93%
Trading account liabilities 
(8)(9)
$25,837

$111

0.43%

44,126
105
0.24
š
$69,963

$216

0.31%
Short-term borrowings (10)
$66,086

$234

0.35%

50,043
288˝˜˛
0.58
š
$116,129

$522

0.45%
Long-term debt (11)
$182,371

$4,309

2.36%

7,643
208˜˙˝
2.72
š
$190,014

$4,517

2.38%
Total interest-bearing liabilities
$1,248,767

$11,921

0.95%

$26,124


329,756
š
Š“
Total liabilities
$1,604,647

Citigroup stockholders™ equity (12)$217,875

1,315
Total equity 
(12)$219,190

Total liabilities and stockholders™ equity
$1,823,837

Net interest revenue as a percentage of average interest-earning assets (13)
$923,334

$28,495

3.09%

682,503
18,624
2.73
Total
$1,605,837

$47,119

2.93%
Net interest revenue
‡






Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations



⁄
‹˘
⁄

Interest expense


Non-interest-earning assetsOther non-interest-bearing liabilities
Interest expenseTrading account liabilities
ICGInterest revenueInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets
Trading account liabilities
‡

‡˘


as Long-term debt
Principal transactions


103Analysis of Changes in Interest Revenue (1)(2)(3)2015 vs. 2014

Increase (decrease) due to change in:In millions of dollarsAverage 
volumeAverage 
rateNet change⁄
⁄

Deposits with banks (4)$(154)$(78)$(232)

Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or 
  purchased under agreements to resell
$(23)$200$177


(246)219(27)

š
$(269)$419$150

Trading account assets 
(5)
$(8)$481$473


(342)(55)(397)
˛˝
š
$(350)$426$76

Investments (1)
$464$(121)$343


(332)(224)(556)

š
$132$(345)$(213)

Loans (net of unearned income) (6)
$(521)$(997)$(1,518)


(1,432)(1,303)(2,735)

š
$(1,953)$(2,300)$(4,253)

Other interest-earning assets (7)$239$1,093$1,332
˙˜
Total interest revenue
$(2,355)$(785)$(3,140)


ı˘



Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations



‹˘
Interest expenseTrading account liabilities
ICGInterest revenueInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets
Trading account liabilities
‡

104Analysis of Changes in Interest Expense and Net Interest Revenue (1)(2)(3)2015 vs. 2014

Increase (decrease) due to change in:In millions of dollarsAverage 
volumeAverage 
rateNet change⁄
⁄

Deposits
$(80)$(61)$(141)


(358)(141)(499)

š
$(438)$(202)$(640)
˜˛
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned  
or sold under agreements to repurchase
$40$25$65
˛˜˙

(293)(53)(346)

š
$(253)$(28)$(281)

Trading account liabilities 
(5)
$(13)$49$36


(2)1412
˜˛š
$(15)$63$48
˛˝
Short-term borrowings (6)
$(30)$103$73
˝

96(227)(131)
˝˛
š
$66$(124)$(58)

Long-term debt

$(301)$(483)$(784)


(4)(50)(54)

š
$(305)$(533)$(838)

Total interest expense
$(945)$(824)$(1,769)

Net interest revenue$(1,410)$39$(1,371)


ı˘



Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations



‹˘
Interest expenseTrading account liabilities
ICGInterest revenueInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets
Trading account liabilities
‡

‡˘
105Trading portfolios include positions resulting from market making activities, hedges of certain available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities, the CVA relating 
from derivatives counterparties and all associated hedges, fair value option 
loans, hedges to the loan portfolio and the leverage finance pipeline within 
capital markets origination within ICG.The market risk of Citi™s trading portfolios is monitored using a 
combination of quantitative and qualitative measures, including but not 
limited to: factor sensitivities;  value at risk (VAR); and  stress testing. Each trading portfolio across Citi™s businesses has its own market risk 
limit framework encompassing these measures and other controls, including trading mandates, permitted product lists and a new product approval 
process for complex products.The following chart of total daily trading-related revenue (loss) captures trading volatility and shows the number of days in which revenues for Citi™s trading businesses fell within particular ranges. Trading-related revenues 

includes trading, net interest and other revenue associated with Citi™s trading 

businesses. It excludes DVA, FVA and CVA adjustments incurred due to changes 

in the credit quality of counterparties as well as any associated hedges to that 
CVA. In addition, it excludes fees and other revenue associated with capital 

markets origination activities. Trading-related revenues are driven by both 

customer flows and the changes in valuation of the trading inventory.  As 

shown in the chart, positive trading-related revenue was achieved for 97% of 
the trading days in 2015.01020
3040(100) to (90)(160) to (150)(2)(140) to (130)(150) to (140)(130) to (120)
(110) to (100)(120) to (110)(10) to 0(20) to (10)(30) to (20)
(40) to (30)(90) to (80)10 to 2020 to 30
30 to 4050 to 6060 to 70
70 to 80
80 to 9090 to 100100 to 110
110 to 120130 to 140140 to 150
150 to 160
160 to 170
170 to 180Number of Days(50) to (40)0 to 1040 to 50120 to 130(80) to (70)
(70) to (60)
(60) to (50)

In millions of dollars‡š



106Factor sensitivities are expressed as the change in the value of a position for a defined change in a market risk factor, such as a change in the value of a 
U.S. Treasury bill for a one basis point change in interest rates. Citi™s Market 
Risk Management, within the Risk organization, works to ensure that factor 
sensitivities are calculated, monitored and, in most cases, limited for all 
material risks taken in the trading portfolios.VAR estimates, at a 99% confidence level, the potential decline in the value of 
a position or a portfolio under normal market conditions assuming a one-
day holding period. VAR statistics, which are based on historical data, can be 
materially different across firms due to differences in portfolio composition, 
differences in VAR methodologies, and differences in model parameters. As 
a result, Citi believes VAR statistics can be used more effectively as indicators 
of trends in risk-taking within a firm, rather than as a basis for inferring 
differences in risk-taking across firms.Citi uses a single, independently approved Monte Carlo simulation VAR 
model (see ﬁVAR Model Review and Validationﬂ below), which has been 

designed to capture material risk sensitivities (such as first- and second-
order sensitivities of positions to changes in market prices) of various asset classes/risk types (such as interest rate, credit spread, foreign exchange, 
equity and commodity risks). Citi™s VAR includes positions which are 

measured at fair value; it does not include investment securities classified 
as AFS or HTM. For information on these securities, see Note 14 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.Citi believes its VAR model is conservatively calibrated to incorporate 
fat-tail scaling and the greater of short-term (approximately the most 
recent month) and long-term (three years) market volatility. The Monte 

Carlo simulation involves approximately 300,000 market factors, making 
use of approximately 180,000 time series, with sensitivities updated daily, 

volatility parameters updated daily to weekly and correlation parameters 
updated monthly. The conservative features of the VAR calibration contribute 

an approximate 17% add-on to what would be a VAR estimated under the 

assumption of stable and perfectly, normally distributed markets.
As set forth in the table below, Citi™s average and year-end Trading VAR 
decreased from 2014 to 2015, mainly due to changes in interest rate and 
credit spread exposures in the markets and securities services businesses 
within ICG. Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR also declined, although the 

decrease from Trading VAR was partially offset by additional hedging related 

to lending activities in 2015.In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
20152015 Average

˜˚˛˝⁄

$37$44

5669

(25)(26)


$68$87
˛˛˝
2734
˙˛
1717
˜˝
1719
˜˙
(53)(65)

šŸ
$76$92
˛˙˚˛˛˜

$11$6
˛˚˛˜
Total trading VARŠgeneral market risk factors only (excluding credit portfolios) 
(2)$65$86
˛˜˚˛˚˚

$22$25
˜˛
Total trading and credit portfolio VAR
$98$117
˛˙˙

ŸŸ
‡ŸŸ


š
Ÿ
ICG
⁄

Ÿ

š‡
‰Ÿ
ICG107The table below provides the range of market factor VARs associated with Citi™s total trading VAR, inclusive of specific risk:
2015˜˚˛˝In millions of dollarsLowHigh


$28$84

5694


$65$127

2054
˜˚
935
˛˝
1237
˛˛
š
$70$140

š
89158


The following table provides the VAR for ICG, excluding the CVA relating to derivative counterparties, hedges of CVA, fair value option loans and hedges 
to the loan portfolio:In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 2015
TotalŠall market risk  
factors, including general and specific risk
$71
⁄
$85
12965VAR Model Review and Validation
Generally, Citi™s VAR review and model validation process entails reviewing 
the model framework, major assumptions, and implementation of the 
mathematical algorithm. In addition, as part of the model validation 
process, product specific back-testing on portfolios is periodically completed 
and reviewed with Citi™s U.S. banking regulators. Furthermore, Regulatory 
VAR (as described below) back-testing is performed against buy-and-hold 
profit and loss on a monthly basis for multiple sub-portfolios across the 
organization (trading desk level, ICG business segment and Citigroup) and 
the results are shared with the U.S. banking regulators.Significant VAR model and assumption changes must be independently 
validated within Citi™s risk management organization. This validation 

process includes a review by Citi™s model validation group and further 

approval from its model validation review committee, which is composed 
of senior quantitative risk management officers. In the event of significant 
model changes, parallel model runs are undertaken prior to implementation. 
In addition, significant model and assumption changes are subject to the 
periodic reviews and approval by Citi™s U.S. banking regulators.
Citi uses the same independently validated VAR model for both Regulatory 
VAR and Risk Management VAR (i.e., Total trading and Total trading and 

credit portfolios VARs) and, as such, the model review and oversight process 

for both purposes is as described above.Regulatory VAR, which is calculated in accordance with Basel III, differs 
from Risk Management VAR due to the fact that certain positions included 

in Risk Management VAR are not eligible for market risk treatment in 

Regulatory VAR. The composition of Risk Management VAR is discussed 

under ﬁValue at Riskﬂ above. The applicability of the VAR model for positions 

eligible for market risk treatment under U.S. regulatory capital rules is 
periodically reviewed and approved by Citi™s U.S. banking regulators.
In accordance with Basel III, Regulatory VAR includes all trading book 
covered positions and all foreign exchange and commodity exposures. 
Pursuant to Basel III, Regulatory VAR excludes positions that fail to meet 

the intent and ability to trade requirements and are therefore classified as 
non-trading book and categories of exposures that are specifically excluded 
as covered positions. Regulatory VAR excludes CVA on derivative instruments 

and DVA on Citi™s own fair value option liabilities. CVA hedges are excluded 

from Regulatory VAR and included in credit risk-weighted assets as computed 

under the Advanced Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets.Regulatory VAR Back-testingIn accordance with Basel III, Citi is required to perform back-testing to 
evaluate the effectiveness of its Regulatory VAR model. Regulatory VAR back-
testing is the process in which the daily one-day VAR, at a 99% confidence 
interval, is compared to the buy-and-hold profit and loss (i.e., the profit and 
loss impact if the portfolio is held constant at the end of the day and re-priced 
the following day). Buy-and-hold profit and loss represents the daily mark-
to-market profit and loss attributable to price movements in covered positions 
from the close of the previous business day. Buy-and-hold profit and loss 
excludes realized trading revenue, net interest, fees and commissions, intra-
day trading profit and loss, and changes in reserves.Based on a 99% confidence level, Citi would expect two to three days in any one year where buy-and-hold losses exceeded the Regulatory VAR. Given 

the conservative calibration of Citi™s VAR model (as a result of taking the 

greater of short- and long-term volatilities and fat-tail scaling of volatilities), 
Citi would expect fewer exceptions under normal and stable market 
conditions. Periods of unstable market conditions could increase the number 
of back-testing exceptions.108The following graph shows the daily buy-and-hold profit and loss associated with Citi™s covered positions compared to Citi™s one-day Regulatory 
VAR during 2015. As of December 31, 2015, there was one back-testing 

exception observed for Citi™s Regulatory VAR for the prior 12 months. As 

previously disclosed, trading losses on January 15, 2015 exceeded the 
VAR estimate at the Citigroup level following the Swiss National Bank™s 

announcement removing the minimum exchange rate of Swiss franc 
per Euro.The difference between the 38% of days with buy-and-hold gains for Regulatory VAR back-testing and the 97% of days with trading, net interest 

and other revenue associated with Citi™s trading businesses shown in the 

histogram of daily trading-related revenue above reflects, among other 
things, that a significant portion of Citi™s trading-related revenue is not 

generated from daily price movements on these positions and exposures, as 
well as differences in the portfolio composition of Regulatory VAR and Risk 

Management VAR.


In millions of dollars˜˚˛˛˜˝˙˛˜˝˛˛˜˙˛˛˙˛˝˛˛150Jan-15Feb-15Mar-15Apr-15May-15Jun-15Jul-15Aug-15Sep-15Oct-15Nov-15Dec-15 


‡


š
109Citi performs stress testing on a regular basis to estimate the impact of extreme market movements. It is performed on individual positions and 
trading portfolios, as well as in aggregate, inclusive of multiple trading 
portfolios. Citi™s Market Risk management, after consultations with the 
businesses, develops both systemic and specific stress scenarios, reviews the 
output of periodic stress testing exercises, and uses the information to assess 
the ongoing appropriateness of exposure levels and limits. Citi uses two 
complementary approaches to market risk stress testing across all major 
risk factors (i.e., equity, foreign exchange, commodity, interest rate and 
credit spreads): top-down systemic stresses and bottom-up business specific 
stresses. Systemic stresses are designed to quantify the potential impact of 
extreme market movements on an institution-wide basis, and are constructed 
using both historical periods of market stress and projections of adverse 
economic scenarios. Business specific stresses are designed to probe the risks 
of particular portfolios and market segments, especially those risks that are 
not fully captured in VAR and systemic stresses.The systemic stress scenarios and business specific stress scenarios at Citi are used in several reports reviewed by senior management and also to 
calculate internal risk capital for trading market risk. In general, changes in 
market factors are defined over a one-year horizon. However, for the purpose 

of calculating internal risk capital, changes in a very limited number of 
the most liquid market factors are defined over a shorter three-month 
horizon. The limited set of market factors subject to the shorter three-month 
time horizon are those that in management™s judgment have historically 

remained very liquid during financial crises, even as the trading liquidity of 
most other market factors materially decreased.110Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, systems or human factors, or from external events. It includes the 
reputation and franchise risk associated with business practices or market 
conduct in which Citi is involved. Operational risk is inherent in Citi™s 
global business activities, as well as the internal processes that support those 
business activities, and can result in losses arising from events related to the 
following, among others: fraud, theft and unauthorized activity; employment practices and workplace environment; clients, products and business practices; physical assets and infrastructure; and execution, delivery and process management.Citi manages operational risk consistent with the overall framework described in ﬁManaging Global RiskŠOverviewﬂ above. The goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels relative to the characteristics of Citi™s 

businesses, the markets in which it operates, its capital and liquidity, and the competitive, economic and regulatory environment.To anticipate, mitigate and control operational risk, Citi maintains a 
system of policies and has established a consistent framework for monitoring, 
assessing and communicating operational risks and the overall operating 
effectiveness of the internal control environment across Citigroup. As part of 
this framework, Citi has established a manager™s control assessment process 

(as described under ﬁCompliance, Conduct and Legal RiskŠCompliance 
Riskﬂ below) to help managers self-assess significant operational risks 
and key controls and identify and address weaknesses in the design and/
or operating effectiveness of internal controls that mitigate significant 
operational risks.Each major business segment must implement an operational risk process consistent with the requirements of this framework. The process for 
operational risk management includes the following steps: identify and assess key operational risks; design controls to mitigate identified risks; establish key risk indicators; implement a process for early problem recognition and timely escalation; produce comprehensive operational risk reporting; and ensure that sufficient resources are available to actively improve the operational risk environment and mitigate emerging risks.As new products and business activities are developed, processes are designed, modified or sourced through alternative means and operational risks are considered.An Operational Risk Management Committee has been established to provide oversight for operational risk across Citigroup and to provide a 
forum to assess Citi™s operational risk profile and ensure actions are taken 

so that Citi™s operational risk exposure is actively managed consistent with Citi™s risk appetite. The Committee seeks to ensure that these actions 

address the root causes that persistently lead to operational risk losses and 
create lasting solutions to minimize these losses. Members include Citi™s 

Chief Risk Officer and Citi™s Head of Operational Risk and senior members 

of their organizations. These members cover multiple dimensions of risk 
management and include business and regional Chief Risk Officers and 
senior operational risk managers.In addition, Risk management, including Operational Risk Management, works proactively with the businesses and other independent control 
functions to embed a strong operational risk management culture and 
framework across Citi. Operational Risk Management engages with 
the businesses and the respective Chief Risk Officers to ensure effective 
implementation of the Operational Risk Management framework by 
focusing on (i) identification, analysis and assessment of operational risks; 
(ii) effective challenge of key control issues and operational risks; and 
(iii) anticipation and mitigation of operational risk events.Information about the businesses™ operational risk, historical operational risk losses and the control environment is reported by each major business 
segment and functional area. The information is summarized and reported 
to senior management, as well as to the Audit Committee of Citi™s Board 

of Directors.Operational risk is measured and assessed through risk capital. Projected operational risk losses under stress scenarios are also required as part of the 
Federal Reserve Board™s CCAR process.
111Citi generally defines emerging markets as countries in Latin America, Asia (other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.The following table presents Citicorp™s principal emerging markets assets 
as of December 31, 2015. For purposes of the table below, loan amounts 

are generally based on the domicile of the borrower. For example, a loan 

to a Chinese subsidiary of a Switzerland-based corporation will generally be categorized as a loan in China. Trading account assets and investment 

securities are generally categorized below based on the domicile of the issuer 
of the security or the underlying reference entity (for additional information 
on the assets included in the table, see the footnotes to the table below).As of December 31, 2015
As of Sept. 30, 
2015As of Dec. 31, 
2014GCB NCL RateIn billions of dollarsTrading  
account  
assets(1)Investment securities(2)Corporate loans(3)GCB loansAggregate
(4)

4Q™15˝¢Ž˛˝
$4.5$16.5$8.0$25.5$54.5

4.7%
1.59.33.019.733.5

0.4
3.18.19.1
6.326.6

0.8

Š5.65.313.524.4

0.3
1.64.67.310.724.2

0.7
2.82.713.5
2.821.8

9.0
2.23.47.1
4.817.5

0.9
š
1.20.73.5
7.713.1

0.4
0.74.11.5
2.79.0

(0.7)
ﬂ˘‹˘
0.40.31.6
4.66.9
0.7
Š0.42.4
1.64.4
3.4
0.21.20.9
1.94.2
3.2
…⁄™(0.2)Š2.6
1.64.0
3.4
0.20.52.4
0.94.0
3.1
0.10.71.7
1.23.7
7.8
š‡
(0.3)0.32.5
0.73.2
0.5)0.40.41.3
1.13.2
0.4
0.10.40.6
1.02.1
3.6

Š0.81.1
Š1.9
Š““
ŠŠ1.8
Š1.8
Š““


Trading account assets
‡
Investment securities
Corporate loans

ICG
ICG





Trading account assets, Investment securities
Corporate loans
GCB loans


112Emerging Markets Trading Account Assets and Investment Securities
In the ordinary course of business, Citi holds securities in its trading accounts 
and investment accounts, including those above. Trading account assets are 
marked to market daily, with asset levels varying as Citi maintains inventory 
consistent with customer needs. Investment securities are recorded at either 
fair value or historical cost, based on the underlying accounting treatment, 
and are predominantly held as part of the local entity asset and liability 
management program or to comply with local regulatory requirements. 
In the markets in the table above, approximately 99% of Citi™s investment 
securities were related to sovereign issuers as of December 31, 2015.Emerging Markets Consumer LendingGCB™s strategy within the emerging markets is consistent with GCB™s overall strategy, which is to leverage its global footprint to serve its target clients. 
The retail bank seeks to be the preeminent bank for the emerging affluent 
and affluent consumers in large urban centers. In credit cards and in certain 
retail markets, Citi serves customers in a somewhat broader set of segments 
and geographies. Commercial banking generally serves small- and middle-
market enterprises operating in GCB™s geographic markets, focused on clients 
that value Citi™s global capabilities. Overall, Citi believes that its customers 
are more resilient than the overall market under a wide range of economic 
conditions. Citi™s consumer business has a well-established risk appetite 
framework across geographies and products that reflects the business strategy 
and activities and establishes boundaries around the key risks that arise from 
the strategy and activities.As of December 31, 2015, GCB had approximately $110 billion of consumer loans outstanding to borrowers in the emerging markets, or 
approximately 38% of GCB™s total loans, largely unchanged from September 

30, 2015 and compared to $118 billion (41%) as of December 31, 2014. 
Of the approximate $110 billion as of December 31, 2015, the five largest 
emerging marketsŠMexico, Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong and TaiwanŠ

comprised approximately 27% of GCB™s total loans. Within the emerging 

markets, 30% of Citi™s 
GCB loans were mortgages, 26% were commercial 
markets loans, 24% were personal loans and 20% were credit card loans, each 
as of December 31, 2015.Overall consumer credit quality remained generally stable in the fourth quarter of 2015, as net credit losses in the emerging markets were 1.9% 
of average loans, compared to 1.8% and 2.2% in the third quarter of 2015 
and fourth quarter of 2014, respectively, consistent with Citi™s target market 

strategy and risk appetite framework. The increase in net credit losses 
in certain emerging market countries in Asia, such as Hong Kong and 
Indonesia, primarily related to Citi™s commercial banking business in such 

countries and was primarily due to the impact of lower commodity prices as 
well as the slowdown in growth in the region. The increase in net credit losses 
in Brazil also related to the commercial banking business and largely related 
to a wind-down portfolio in Brazil, where the losses were mostly offset by the 
release of previously-established loan loss reserves.Emerging Markets Corporate Lending
Consistent with ICG™s overall strategy, Citi™s corporate clients in the emerging 
markets are typically large, multinational corporations that value Citi™s 
global network. Citi aims to establish relationships with these clients that 
encompass multiple products, consistent with client needs, including 
cash management and trade services, foreign exchange, lending, capital 
markets and M&A advisory. Citi believes that its target corporate segment 
is more resilient under a wide range of economic conditions, and that 
its relationship-based approach to client service enables it to effectively 
manage the risks inherent in such relationships. Citi has a well-established 
risk appetite framework around its corporate lending activities, including 
risk-based limits and approval authorities and portfolio concentration 
boundaries.As of December 31, 2015, corporate loans (excluding the private bank) were approximately $93 billion in the emerging markets, representing 
approximately 43% of total corporate loans outstanding, compared to 
$97 billion (43%) and $99 billion (47%) as of September 30, 2015 and 
December 31, 2014, respectively. No single emerging markets country 

accounted for more than 6% of Citi™s corporate loans as of the end of the 

fourth quarter of 2015.As of December 31, 2015, approximately 75% of Citi™s emerging markets 
corporate credit portfolio (excluding the private bank), including loans 
and unfunded lending commitments, was rated investment grade, which 
Citi considers to be ratings of BBB or better according to its internal risk 
measurement system and methodology (for additional information on Citi™s 

internal risk measurement system for corporate credit, see ﬁCorporate Creditﬂ 
above). The majority of the remainder was rated BB or B according to Citi™s 

internal risk measurement system and methodology.
The private bank, which is part of ICG and primarily serves high-net-worth individuals, had approximately $17 billion of loans in the emerging 
markets as of December 31, 2015, representing approximately 25% of the 
business™s total loans outstanding, unchanged from September 30, 2015 and 

compared to $17 billion (27%) as of December 31, 2014. Private bank loans 
are typically secured by liquid collateral or real estate and, consistent with the 
rest of the ICG loan portfolio, the business has a well-established risk appetite 
framework around its lending activities, including risk-based limits and 
approval authorities and portfolio concentration boundaries.Overall ICG net credit losses in the emerging markets were 0.1% of average loans in the fourth quarter of 2015, compared to 0.0% and 0.4% in the third 
quarter of 2015 and fourth quarter of 2014, respectively. The ratio of non-

accrual ICG loans to total loans in the emerging markets remained stable at 
0.4% as of December 31, 2015.113As of December 31, 2015, Citi™s net investment in its Argentine operations was 
approximately $747 million, compared to $917 million at September 30, 
2015 and $780 million at December 31, 2014.Citi uses the Argentine peso as the functional currency in Argentina and translates its financial statements into U.S. dollars using the official 
exchange rate as published by the Central Bank of Argentina. Over the last 
several years, the Argentine government has imposed strict foreign exchange 
controls which have limited Citi™s ability to access U.S. dollars and other 

foreign currencies, repatriate capital and hedge its currency risk, among 
other impacts. In the latter part of 2015, however, Argentina elected a new 

president and the Argentine government took steps to loosen some of these 
foreign exchange controls. While these actions were encouraging, they 
did result in a devaluation of the Argentine peso to 13 pesos per one U.S. 
dollar at December 31, 2015, compared to 9.4 pesos per one U.S. dollar at 
September 30, 2015 and 8.6 pesos per one U.S. dollar at December 31, 2014.The impact of devaluations of the Argentine peso on Citi™s net investment 
in Argentina is reported as a translation loss in stockholders™ equity offset, to 
the extent hedged, by: gains or losses recorded in stockholders™ equity on net investment hedges that have been designated as, and qualify for, hedge accounting under 
ASC 815 Derivatives and Hedging; and gains or losses recorded in earnings for its U.S. dollar-denominated 
monetary assets or currency futures held in Argentina that do not qualify 
as net investment hedges under ASC 815.At December 31, 2015, Citi had cumulative translation losses related to its investment in Argentina, net of qualifying net investment hedges, of approximately $1.88 billion (pretax), which were recorded in stockholders™ 
equity. This compared to $1.66 billion (pretax) as of September 30, 2015 and 

$1.51 billion (pretax) as of December 31, 2014. The cumulative translation 
losses would not be reclassified into earnings unless realized upon sale or 
liquidation of substantially all of Citi™s Argentine operations.  As noted above, Citi hedges currency risk in its net investment in Argentina to the extent possible and prudent. As of December 31, 2015, Citi™s 

total hedges against its net investment in Argentina were approximately 
$821 million (compared to $972 million as of September 30, 2015 and $810 million as of December 31, 2014). Of this amount, approximately 
$567 million consisted of foreign currency forwards that were recorded as net 
investment hedges under ASC 815 (compared to approximately $562 million 
as of September 30, 2015 and $420 million as of December 31, 2014). The 
remaining hedges of approximately $254 million as of December 31, 2015 
(compared to $410 million as of September 30, 2015 and $390 million as 
of December 31, 2014) were net U.S. dollar-denominated assets and foreign currency futures in Citi Argentina that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
under ASC 815.Although Citi currently uses the Argentine peso as the functional currency for its operations in Argentina, an increase in inflation resulting 
in a cumulative three-year inflation rate of 100% or more would result in a 
change in the functional currency to the U.S. dollar. Citi bases its evaluation 

of the cumulative three-year inflation rate on the official inflation statistics 
published by INDEC, the Argentine government™s statistics agency. The 

cumulative three-year inflation rate as of November 30, 2015, based on 
statistics published by INDEC, was approximately 57% (compared to 52% 
as of December 31, 2014). While a change in the functional currency to the 
U.S. dollar would not result in any immediate gains or losses to Citi, it would 
result in future devaluations of the Argentine peso being recorded in earnings 
for Citi™s Argentine peso-denominated assets and liabilities.
As of December 31, 2015, Citi had total third-party assets of approximately $4.4 billion in Citi Argentina (unchanged from September 30, 2015 and 
compared to $4.1 billion at December 31, 2014), primarily composed of 
corporate and consumer loans and cash on deposit with and short-term 
paper issued by the Central Bank of Argentina. A significant portion of these 
assets was funded with local deposits. Included in the total assets were U.S. 
dollar-denominated assets of approximately $918 million, compared to 

approximately $562 million at September 30, 2015 and $550 million at 
December 31, 2014. The sequential increase in U.S. dollar-denominated 

assets was largely due to the Argentine government™s loosening of foreign 

exchange controls toward the end of 2015, as referenced above. (For 
additional information on Citi™s exposures related to Argentina, see 

ﬁEmerging Markets Exposuresﬂ above.)114In addition to these foreign exchange and other economic risks, as widely reported, Argentina continues to be engaged in litigation in the U.S. with certain ﬁholdoutﬂ bond investors who did not accept restructured bonds in 
the restructuring of Argentine debt after Argentina defaulted on its sovereign 
obligations in 2001. Based on U.S. court rulings to date, Argentina has 
been ordered to negotiate a settlement with ﬁholdoutﬂ bond investors and, 
absent a negotiated settlement, not pay interest on certain of its restructured 
bonds unless it simultaneously pays all amounts owed to the ﬁholdoutﬂ 
investors that are the subject of the litigation. Although Argentina has been 
in technical default of the U.S. court™s ruling since mid-2014, Argentina™s 

new president has announced that it will be a priority for his administration 
to attempt to settle the dispute, and in February 2016, Argentina restarted 
negotiations with its creditors, including the ﬁholdoutﬂ investors.Citi Argentina acted as a custodian in Argentina for certain of the restructured bonds that are part of the ﬁholdoutﬂ bond litigation; specifically, 

U.S.-dollar-denominated restructured bonds governed by Argentine law 

and payable in Argentina. In 2015, the U.S. court overseeing the Argentina 
litigation ruled that Citi Argentina™s processing of interest payments on these 

bonds, as custodian, was prohibited by the court™s order. As a result, Citi 

announced its intention to exit its custody business in Argentina, which such 
exit is not expected to have a material impact on Citi Argentina™s results of 

operations. Upon such announcement, the prior Argentine government took 
a number of adverse actions against Citi Argentina, including filing a lawsuit 
against Citi Argentina and suspending certain of its activities. While the 
new government has, to date, indicated a willingness to settle these matters, 
it remains uncertain as to when these matters will be resolved and what 
impact, if any, such resolution will have on Citi or its franchise in Argentina.
The Venezuelan government operates restrictive foreign exchange controls. 

These exchange controls have limited Citi™s ability to obtain U.S. dollars in 

Venezuela; Citi has not been able to acquire U.S. dollars from the Venezuelan 

government since 2008, other than for its customers™ needs.As of December 31, 2015, the Venezuelan government operated three 
separate official foreign exchange rates:  the preferential foreign exchange rate offered by the National Center for Foreign Trade (CENCOEX), fixed at 6.3 bolivars to one U.S. dollar;  the SICAD rate, which was 13.5 bolivars to one U.S. dollar; and  the SIMADI rate, which was 199 bolivars to one U.S. dollar. Citi uses the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for its operations in Venezuela. As of December 31, 2015, Citi uses the SICAD rate to remeasure its 
net bolivar-denominated monetary assets as the SICAD rate is the only rate at which Citi is legally eligible to acquire U.S. dollars from CENCOEX, despite 
the limited availability of U.S. dollars and although the SICAD rate may 
not necessarily be reflective of economic reality. Re-measurement of Citi™s 

bolivar-denominated assets and liabilities due to changes in the exchange 

rate is recorded in earnings. Citi has been unable to hedge the currency 
risk in its net investment in Venezuela due to the lack of effective market 

hedging mechanisms.At December 31, 2015, Citi™s net investment in its Venezuelan operations 
was approximately $200 million (compared to $187 million at September 30, 
2015 and $180 million at December 31, 2014), which included net monetary 
assets denominated in Venezuelan bolivars of approximately $177 million 

(compared to approximately $160 million at September 30, 2015 and 
$140 million at December 31, 2014). Total third-party assets of Citi Venezuela 

were approximately $1.0 billion at December 31, 2015 (unchanged from 
September 30, 2015 and compared to $0.9 billion at December 31, 2014), 
primarily composed of cash on deposit with the Central Bank of Venezuela, 

corporate and consumer loans, and government bonds. A significant portion 
of these assets was funded with local deposits.On February 17, 2016, the Venezuelan government announced changes 
to its foreign exchange controls. Based on the announcement, the CENCOEX 
rate would increase to 10 bolivars per U.S. dollar, the SICAD rate would no 

longer exist and the SIMADI rate is expected to become a free floating rate of 
at least 202 bolivars per U.S. dollar at inception.115Based on this announcement, Citi expects to begin using the SIMADI rate in the first quarter of 2016 to remeasure its net bolivar-denominated 
monetary assets, despite the possibly limited availability of U.S. dollars 
(notwithstanding the fact that it has been described as a free floating rate) 
and although the new SIMADI rate may not necessarily be reflective of 
economic reality. At the expected minimum new SIMADI rate of 202 bolivars 

per U.S. dollar, Citi estimates that it will incur an approximate $172 million 

foreign currency loss in the first quarter of 2016, which could increase if 
the bolivar continues to devalue in the new SIMADI market. Additionally, 

Citi expects its revenues and expenses will be translated at the SIMADI rate 
beginning in the first quarter of 2016. Because the new foreign exchange 
control rules have not yet been officially published and are thus not yet 
effective, however, the impact to Citi™s results of operations as a result of the 

February 17th announcement is not yet certain.During 2015, political events led to the imposition of international sanctions 
against Russia (as well as Russian entities, business sectors, individuals 
or otherwise). These ongoing sanctions, coupled with lower oil and other 
commodity prices, particularly during the second half of 2015, have had a 
significant impact on Russia™s economy, and could continue to do so. During 

2015, the Russian ruble depreciated by 22% against the U.S. dollar.
Citibank operates in Russia through a subsidiary, which uses the Russian 
ruble as its functional currency. Citibank™s net investment in Russia was 

approximately $0.8 billion at December 31, 2015, compared to $0.9 billion at 
September 30, 2015 and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 
2015, substantially all of Citibank™s net investment was hedged (subject to 

related tax adjustments) using forward foreign exchange contracts. Total 

third-party assets of the Russian Citibank subsidiary were approximately 
$5.0 billion as of December 31, 2015, unchanged from September 30, 2015 
and compared to $6.1 billion at December 31, 2014. These assets were 
primarily composed of corporate and consumer loans, Russian government 
debt securities, and cash on deposit with the Central Bank of Russia. The 
large majority of these assets were funded by local deposits. (For additional 
information on Citi™s exposures related to Russia, see ﬁEmerging Markets 

Exposuresﬂ above.)
Citi™s cross-border disclosures are based on the country exposure bank 
regulatory reporting guidelines of the Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council (FFIEC), as revised in December 2013. The following 
summarizes some of the FFIEC key reporting guidelines: Amounts are based on the domicile of the ultimate obligor, counterparty, collateral, issuer or guarantor, as applicable.  Amounts do not consider the benefit of collateral received for securities 
financing transactions (i.e., repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase 
agreements and securities loaned and borrowed) and are reported based 
on notional amounts.  Netting of derivatives receivables and payables, reported at fair value, is 
permitted, but only under a legally binding netting agreement with the 
same specific counterparty, and does not include the benefit of margin 
received or hedges. The netting of long and short positions for AFS securities and trading 
portfolios is not permitted.  Credit default swaps (CDS) are included based on the gross notional 
amount sold and purchased and do not include any offsetting CDS on the 
same underlying entity.  Loans are reported without the benefit of hedges.Given the requirements noted above, Citi™s FFIEC cross-border exposures 
and total outstandings tend to fluctuate, in some cases, significantly, from period to period. As an example, because total outstandings under FFIEC guidelines do not include the benefit of margin or hedges, market volatility 
in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and credit spreads may cause 
significant fluctuations in the level of total outstandings, all else being equal.116The tables below set forth each country whose total outstandings exceeded 0.75% of total Citigroup assets:December 31, 2015
Cross-Border Claims on Third Parties and Local Country Assets
In billions of U.S. dollars
Banks (a)Public (a)NBFIs (a) (1) Other (corporate and households) (a)Trading 
assets (included 
in (a)) (2)Short-term claims 
(included 
in (a)) (2)Total 
outstanding (sum of (a)) (3)Commitments  and guarantees (4)Credit derivatives 
purchased (5)Credit derivatives 
sold (5)United Kingdom$25.1$20.4$56.2
$19.3$12.0$57.8$121.0$23.9$85.5$85.2
Mexico
7.622.56.7
34.96.534.571.7
17.97.16.5
Cayman Islands0.1Š59.0
2.11.539.861.2
2.5ŠŠ
Germany
11.018.88.8
7.05.317.245.6
10.566.366.3
France20.43.717.3
3.33.627.444.7
11.071.371.1
Korea1.117.50.8
23.41.734.142.8
12.811.69.7
Japan11.418.84.1
2.56.326.736.8
3.227.527.2
China9.510.73.5
11.45.326.435.1
4.111.812.5
India6.412.73.5
12.45.824.435.0
7.72.21.8
Singapore2.312.72.1
14.70.322.431.8
13.01.61.5
Australia6.46.33.2
15.44.19.131.3
11.225.124.7
Netherlands5.110.28.3
6.72.612.730.3
8.127.627.5
Brazil4.59.01.1
14.23.617.728.8
4.812.110.2
Hong Kong1.37.83.4
15.63.219.528.1
12.82.71.9
Switzerland5.316.11.5
4.50.619.827.4
5.321.922.1
Canada5.24.25.8
6.02.19.121.2
12.87.18.0
Taiwan
2.05.62.1
9.81.411.919.5
12.50.10.1
Italy2.811.30.6
1.56.18.016.2
3.069.367.0


In billions of U.S. dollars

š
š


United Kingdom

Mexico



Cayman Islands“

““
Germany



France


Korea


Japan


China


India


Singapore


Australia


Netherlands


Brazil


Hong Kong


Switzerland


Canada


Taiwan


“
Italy


š




‡
117Citi™s compliance risk appetite framework outlines Citi™s compliance risk appetite, how Citi manages its adherence to its compliance risk appetite and 
how Citi evaluates the effectiveness of its controls for managing compliance 
risks. This framework is comprised of three pillars: Setting risk appetite: Citi establishes its compliance risk appetite by setting limits on the types of business in which Citi will engage, the products 
and services Citi will offer, the types of customers which Citi will service, 
the counterparties with which Citi will deal, and the locations where 
Citi will do business. These limits are guided by Citi™s mission and value 
proposition and the principle of responsible finance, Citi™s adherence to 
relevant standards of conduct, as well as to relevant and applicable laws, 
rules, regulations, and Citi™s internal policies. Adhering to risk appetite: Citi manages adherence to its compliance risk 
appetite through the execution of its compliance program, which includes 
governance arrangements, a policy framework, customer onboarding 
and maintenance processes, product development processes, transaction 
and communication surveillance processes, conduct- and culture-
related programs, monitoring regulatory changes, and new products, 
services, and complex transactions approval processes. At Citi, it is the 
responsibility of each employee to escalate breaches of the compliance risk 
appetite in a timely manner. Evaluating the effectiveness of risk appetite controls: Each business and Compliance evaluate the effectiveness of controls for managing 
compliance risk through the manager™s control assessment (MCA) 
processŠa process through which managers at Citi identify, monitor, 
measure, report on, and manage risks. Citi also relies on compliance risk 
assessments; a policy framework; compliance testing and monitoring 
processes; compliance metrics related to key operating risks, key risk 
indicators, and control-effectiveness indicators; and Internal Audit 
examinations and reports.Compliance aims to operate Citi™s compliance risk appetiteŠ and 
thus minimize, mitigate or manage compliance risksŠ through Citi™s 
compliance program. To achieve this mission, Compliance seeks to: Understand the regulatory environment, requirements and expectations to which Citi™s activities are subject. Compliance coordinates with Legal and other independent control functions, 
as appropriate, to identify, communicate and document key 
regulatory requirements. Assess the compliance risks of business activities and the state of 
mitigating controls, including the risks and controls in legal entities 
in which activity is conducted. To facilitate the identification and assessment of compliance risk, Compliance works with the businesses and 
other independent control functions to review significant compliance and 
regulatory issues and the results of testing, monitoring, and internal and 
external exams and audits. Define Citi™s appetite, in conjunction with Citigroup™s Board of 
Directors and senior management, for prudent compliance and 
regulatory risk consistent with its culture of compliance, control and 
responsible finance. As noted above, Citi has developed a compliance 
risk appetite framework that is designed to minimize, mitigate or manage 
compliance risk. Develop controls and execute programs reasonably designed to 
promote conduct that is consistent with Citi™s compliance risk appetite 
and promptly detect and mitigate behavior that is inconsistent with 
this appetite. Compliance has product-related compliance functions, 
namely the corporate compliance group and compliance programs 
for Global Consumer Banking and the Institutional Clients Group. Compliance also has regional programs together with thematic groups 
and programs, such as the conduct, governance and emerging risk 
management group and programs that focus on anti-bribery and 
corruption, ethics, privacy and sanctions. Each of these functions, 
programs and groups aims to mitigate Citi™s exposure to conduct that is 
inconsistent with Citi™s compliance risk appetite. Detect, report on, escalate and remediate key compliance and 
franchise risks and control issues; test controls for design and 
operating effectiveness, promptly address issues, and track 
remediation efforts. Compliance designs and implements policies, 
standards, procedures, guidelines, surveillance reports and other solutions 
for use by the business and Compliance to promptly detect, address and 
remediate issues, test controls for design and operating effectiveness, and 
track remediation efforts. Engage with the Citigroup Board, business management, operating 
committees and Citi™s regulators to foster effective global governance. Compliance provides regular reports on emerging risks and other 
issues and their implications for Citi, as well as the performance of the 
compliance program, to the Citigroup Board of Directors, including the 
Audit and Ethics and Culture Committees, as well as other committees 
of the Board. Compliance also engages with business management on 
an ongoing basis through various mechanisms, including governance 
committees, and supports and advises the businesses and other global 
functions in managing regulatory relationships. Advise and train Citi personnel across businesses, functions, regions 
and legal entities in how to comply with laws, regulations and 
other relevant standards of conduct. Compliance helps promote a 
strong culture of compliance and control by increasing awareness and 
capability across Citi on key compliance issues through training and 
communication programs. A fundamental element of Citi™s culture is 
the requirement that Citi conduct itself in accordance with the highest 
standards of ethical behavior. Compliance plays a key role in developing 
company-wide initiatives designed to further embed ethics in Citi™s 118culture, such as an interactive course on ethics and leadership for employees, which included training on using an ethical decision-making 
framework to challenge decisions by Citi™s businesses. Enhance the compliance program. Compliance fulfills its obligation to 
enhance the compliance program in part by using results from its annual 
compliance risk assessment to shape annual and multi-year program 
enhancements.The Volcker rule required Citi to develop and provide for an enhanced 
compliance program reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance 
with the rule™s prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and 
covered fund activities and investments. Citi™s Volcker rule office, which 
reports to business management, has responsibility for overall coordination 
and monitoring under its compliance program, including project 
management and process support, and providing assistance in coordinating 
engagement with and among Citi™s second line of defense. For additional 
information, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠRegulatory Risksﬂ and ﬁŠCompliance, 
Conduct and Legal Risksﬂ above.Citi manages its exposure to conduct risk through the three lines of defense, 
as discussed above. Each employee in each line of defense is guided by 
Citi™s mission and value proposition and the principle of responsible 
finance. Citi™s leadership standards, which are aligned with Citi™s mission 
and value proposition, outline Citi™s expectations of employees™ behavior, 
and employees™ performance is evaluated against those standards. Citi™s 
businesses and functions are responsible for managing their conduct 
risks. Compliance advises Citi™s businesses and other functions on conduct 
risks and associated controls. Internal Audit, among other things, assesses 
the adequacy and effectiveness of Citi™s management of and controls 
for conduct risk.In 2015, Citi issued a conduct risk policy to further the objectives of its Compliance-led conduct risk program, which was established in 2014 to 
enhance Citi™s culture of compliance and control through the management, 

minimization, and mitigation of Citi™s exposure to conduct risk. Citi uses the 

MCA process to assess the design and operation of controls that are utilized 
to manage the institution™s conduct risks. Citi also manages its conduct risk 

through other initiatives, including various culture-related efforts.Citi views legal risk as qualitative in nature because it cannot be reliably 
estimated or measured based on forecasts rather than actual results using 
statistical methods and does not lend itself to an appetite expressed through 
a numerical limit. As such, Citi seeks to manage this risk in accordance with 
its qualitative risk appetite principle, which generally state that activities in 
which Citi engages and the risks those activities generate must be consistent 
with Citi™s underlying commitment to the principle of responsible finance 
and managed with a goal to eliminate, minimize or mitigate this risk, as 
practicable. To accomplish this goal, legal risk is managed in accordance 
with the overall framework described in greater detail in ﬁManaging Global 
RiskŠOverviewﬂ above.Citi™s reputation is a vital asset in building trust with its stakeholders, and Citi 
is diligent in communicating its corporate values, including the importance 
of protecting Citi™s reputation, to its employees, customers and investors. The 
responsibility for maintaining Citi™s reputation is shared by all employees, 
who are guided by Citi™s Code of Conduct. Employees are required to exercise 
sound judgment and common sense in every action they take and issues 
that present potential franchise, reputational and/or systemic risks are to be 
appropriately escalated. The business practices committees for each of Citi™s 
businesses and regions are part of the governance infrastructure Citi has in 
place to properly review business activities, sales practices, product design, 
perceived conflicts of interest and other potential franchise or reputational 
risks that arise in these businesses and regions. These committees may also 
raise potential franchise, reputational or systemic risks for due consideration 
by the business practices committee at the corporate level. All of these 
committees, which are composed of Citi™s most senior executives, provide the 
guidance necessary for Citi™s business practices to meet the highest standards 
of professionalism, integrity and ethical behavior consistent with Citi™s 
mission and value proposition.119Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains a summary of Citigroup™s significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently 
issued accounting pronouncements. These policies, as well as estimates made 
by management, are integral to the presentation of Citi™s results of operations 
and financial condition. While all of these policies require a certain level of 
management judgment and estimates, this section highlights and discusses 
the significant accounting policies that require management to make highly 
difficult, complex or subjective judgments and estimates at times regarding 
matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to change (see also 
ﬁRisk FactorsŠOperational Risksﬂ above). Management has discussed 
each of these significant accounting policies, the related estimates, and its 
judgments with the Audit Committee of the Citigroup Board of Directors.Citigroup holds debt and equity securities, derivatives, retained interests 
in securitizations, investments in private equity and other financial 
instruments. Substantially all of these assets and liabilities are reflected at 
fair value on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet.Citi purchases securities under agreements to resell (reverse repos) and sells securities under agreements to repurchase (repos), a majority of which 
are carried at fair value. In addition, certain loans, short-term borrowings, 
long-term debt and deposits, as well as certain securities borrowed and 
loaned positions that are collateralized with cash, are carried at fair value. 
Citigroup holds its investments, trading assets and liabilities, and resale 
and repurchase agreements on the Consolidated Balance Sheet to meet 
customer needs and to manage liquidity needs, interest rate risks and 
private equity investing.When available, Citi generally uses quoted market prices to determine fair value and classifies such items within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy 
established under ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurement
. If quoted market 
prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed 
valuation models that use, where possible, current market-based or 
independently sourced market parameters, such as interest rates, currency 
rates and option volatilities. Such models are often based on a discounted 
cash flow analysis. In addition, items valued using such internally generated valuation techniques are classified according to the lowest level input or 
value driver that is significant to the valuation. Thus, an item may be 
classified under the fair value hierarchy as Level 3 even though there may be 
some significant inputs that are readily observable.The credit crisis caused some markets to become illiquid, thus reducing the availability of certain observable data used by Citi™s valuation techniques. 

This illiquidity, in certain markets, continued through 2015. When or if 

liquidity returns to these markets, the valuations will revert to using the 
related observable inputs in verifying internally calculated values.Citi is required to exercise subjective judgments relating to the applicability and functionality of internal valuation models, the significance 
of inputs or value drivers to the valuation of an instrument, and the degree 
of illiquidity and subsequent lack of observability in certain markets. 
These judgments have the potential to impact the Company™s financial 

performance for instruments where the changes in fair value are recognized 
in either the Consolidated Statement of Income or in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI).Moreover, for certain investments, decreases in fair value are only 
recognized in earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Income if such 
decreases are judged to be an other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI). 

Adjudicating the temporary nature of fair value impairments is also 
inherently judgmental.The fair value of financial instruments incorporates the effects of Citi™s own credit risk and the market view of counterparty credit risk, the 

quantification of which is also complex and judgmental. For additional 
information on Citi™s fair value analysis, see Notes 1, 6, 25 and 26 to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements.120Management provides reserves for an estimate of probable losses inherent in the funded loan portfolio and in unfunded loan commitments and standby 
letters of credit on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the Allowance for loan losses and in Other liabilities, respectively.Estimates of these probable losses are based upon (i) Citigroup™s internal 
system of credit-risk ratings, which are analogous to the risk ratings of 
the major credit rating agencies; and (ii) historical default and loss data, 
including rating agency information regarding default rates from 1983 
to 2014, and internal data dating to the early 1970s on severity of losses 
in the event of default. Adjustments may be made to this data, including 
(i) statistically calculated estimates to cover the historical fluctuation 
of the default rates over the credit cycle, the historical variability of loss 
severity among defaulted loans, and the degree to which there are large 
obligor concentrations in the global portfolio; and (ii) adjustments made 
for specifically known items, such as current environmental factors and 
credit trends.In addition, representatives from both the risk management and finance staffs who cover business areas with delinquency-managed portfolios 
containing smaller balance homogeneous loans present their recommended 
reserve balances based upon leading credit indicators, including loan 
delinquencies and changes in portfolio size, as well as economic trends, 
including housing prices, unemployment and GDP. This methodology is 

applied separately for each individual product within each geographic region 
in which these portfolios exist.This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. The frequency of default, risk ratings, loss recovery rates, the size and 
diversity of individual large credits, and the ability of borrowers with foreign 
currency obligations to obtain the foreign currency necessary for orderly debt 
servicing, among other things, are all taken into account during this review. 

Changes in these estimates could have a direct impact on Citi™s credit costs 

and the allowance in any period.For a further description of the loan loss reserve and related accounts, see Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citi tests goodwill for impairment annually on July 1 (the annual test) and 
between annual tests (the interim test) if an event occurs or circumstances 
change that would more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting 
unit below its carrying amount, such as a significant adverse change in the 
business climate, a decision to sell or dispose of all or a significant portion 
of a reporting unit, or a significant decline in Citi™s stock price. During 2015, 
interim tests were performed, which resulted in $31 million of total goodwill 
impairment recorded in Operating expenses as a result of reorganization 
and disposal of a significant portion of a reporting unit described in Note 17 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.As of December 31, 2015, Citigroup consists of the following business segments: Global Consumer Banking, Institutional Clients Group, 
Corporate/Other and Citi Holdings. Goodwill impairment testing is 
performed at the level below the business segment (referred to as a reporting 
unit). Goodwill is allocated to Citi™s 11 reporting units at the date the 

goodwill is recorded. Once goodwill has been allocated to the reporting units, 
it generally no longer retains its identification with a particular acquisition, 
but instead becomes identified with the reporting unit as a whole. As a 
result, all of the fair value of each reporting unit is available to support the 
allocated goodwill.The carrying value used in the impairment test for the 11 reporting units and Corporate/Other (together the ﬁcomponentsﬂ) is generally derived 
by allocating Citigroup™s total stockholders™ equity to each component as 

follows: First, Citigroup™s total Tangible Common Equity (TCE) is allocated to 

each component based on its Basel III risk-weighted assets and adding back 
any specifically identified Basel III capital deductions for each component. 
Second, once total Citigroup™s TCE is allocated to each component, the 

reported goodwill and intangibles associated with each reporting unit 
are added to their respective carrying amounts. Lastly, any remaining 

stockholders™ equity is allocated to each component based on its relative 
allocated TCE. Thus, the combined equity allocated to each component is 
equal to Citigroup™s total stockholders™ equity.
Goodwill impairment testing involves management judgment, requiring an assessment of whether the carrying value of the reporting unit can be 
supported by the fair value of the individual reporting unit using widely 
accepted valuation techniques, such as the market approach (earnings 
multiples and/or transaction multiples) and/or the income approach 
(discounted cash flow (DCF) method). In applying these methodologies, 
Citi utilizes a number of factors, including actual operating results, future 
business plans, economic projections, and market data. Citi prepares 
a formal three-year plan for its businesses on an annual basis. These 121projections incorporate certain external economic projections developed at the point in time the plan is developed. For the purpose of performing any 
impairment test, the most recent three-year forecast available is updated by 
Citi to reflect current economic conditions as of the testing date. Citi uses 
the updated long-range financial forecasts as a basis for its annual goodwill 
impairment test. Management may engage an independent valuation 
specialist to assist in Citi™s valuation process.
Similar to the prior year, Citigroup engaged an independent valuation 
specialist in 2015 to assist in Citi™s valuation for most of the reporting units 

employing both the market approach and DCF method. Citi believes that 
the DCF method, using management projections for the selected reporting 
units and an appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, is most reflective of 
a market participant™s view of fair values given current market conditions. 

For reporting units where both methods were utilized in 2015, the resulting 
fair values were relatively consistent and appropriate weighting was given to 
outputs from both methods.The DCF method used at the time of each impairment test used discount rates that Citi believes adequately reflected the risk and uncertainty in the 
financial markets in the internally generated cash flow projections. The DCF 
method employs a capital asset pricing model in estimating the discount 
rate. Citi continues to value the remaining reporting units where it believes 
the risk of impairment to be low, using primarily the market approach.
Since none of the Company™s reporting units are publicly traded, 
individual reporting unit fair-value determinations cannot be directly 

correlated to Citigroup™s common stock price. The sum of the fair values of 

the reporting units at July 1, 2015 exceeded the overall market capitalization 
of Citi as of July 1, 2015. However, Citi believes that it is not meaningful to 

reconcile the sum of the fair values of the Company™s reporting units to its 

market capitalization due to several factors. The market capitalization of 
Citigroup reflects the execution risk in a transaction involving Citigroup due 
to its size. However, the individual reporting units™ fair values are not subject 

to the same level of execution risk or a business model that is perceived to be 
as complex.See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on goodwill, including the changes in the goodwill balance 
year-over-year and the reporting unit goodwill balances as of December 31, 2015.
Overview
Citi is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and local 
municipalities and the foreign jurisdictions in which Citi operates. These 
tax laws are complex and are subject to differing interpretations by the 
taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. Disputes over 
interpretations of the tax laws may be subject to review and adjudication by 
the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or may be settled with the 
taxing authority upon audit.In establishing a provision for income tax expense, Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently 
complex tax laws. Citi must also make estimates about when in the future 
certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, both 
domestic and foreign. Deferred taxes are recorded for the future consequences 
of events that have been recognized in the financial statements or tax 
returns, based upon enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred tax assets (DTAs) 

are recognized subject to management™s judgment that realization is more-

likely-than-not.DTAsAt December 31, 2015, Citi had recorded net DTAs of $47.8 billion. In 
the fourth quarter of 2015, Citi™s DTAs increased $600 million, driven by 
movements in AOCI, partially offset by earnings. On a full-year basis, Citi™s 
DTAs decreased $1.5 billion from $49.3 billion at December 31, 2014. The 
decrease in total DTAs year-over-year was primarily due to the earnings in 
Citicorp and Citi Holdings partially offset by an increase in AOCI.Foreign tax credits (FTCs) comprised approximately $15.9 billion of Citi™s 
DTAs as of December 31, 2015, compared to approximately $17.6 billion as 

of December 31, 2014. The decrease in FTCs year-over-year was due to the 

generation of U.S. taxable income and represented $1.7 billion of the $1.5 
billion decrease in Citi™s overall DTAs noted above, partially offset by the 

increase in the AOCI-related DTAs. The FTCs carry-forward periods represent 

the most time-sensitive component of Citi™s DTAs. Accordingly, in 2016, 

Citi will continue to prioritize reducing the FTC carry-forward component 
of the DTAs. Secondarily, Citi™s actions will focus on reducing other DTA 

components and, thereby, reduce the total DTAs. Citi™s DTAs will decline 

primarily as additional domestic GAAP taxable income is generated.122While Citi™s net total DTAs decreased year-over-year, the time remaining for 
utilization has shortened, given the passage of time, particularly with respect to the FTCs component of the DTAs. Although realization is not assured, 

Citi believes that the realization of the recognized net DTAs of $47.8 billion 

at December 31, 2015 is more-likely-than-not based upon management™s 

expectations as to future taxable income in the jurisdictions in which the 
DTAs arise as well as available tax planning strategies (as defined in ASC 

740, Income Taxes
) that would be implemented, if necessary, to prevent a 

carry-forward from expiring.Citi has concluded that it has the necessary positive evidence to support the full realization of its DTAs. Specifically, Citi forecasts sufficient U.S. 

taxable income in the carry-forward periods, exclusive of ASC 740 tax 
planning strategies. Citi™s forecasted taxable income, which will continue to 

be subject to overall market and global economic conditions, incorporates 
geographic business forecasts and taxable income adjustments to those 
forecasts (e.g., U.S. tax exempt income, loan loss reserves deductible for U.S. 
tax reporting in subsequent years), and actions intended to optimize its U.S. 
taxable earnings. In general, Citi would need to generate approximately 
$59 billion of U.S. taxable income during the FTCs carry-forward periods to 
prevent Citi™s FTCs from expiring.
In addition to its forecasted U.S. taxable income, Citi has tax planning strategies available to it under ASC 740 that would be implemented, if 
necessary, to prevent a carry-forward from expiring. These strategies include: 

(i) repatriating low-taxed foreign source earnings for which an assertion 
that the earnings have been indefinitely reinvested has not been made; 
(ii) accelerating U.S. taxable income into, or deferring U.S. tax deductions 
out of, the latter years of the carry-forward period (e.g., selling appreciated 
assets, electing straight-line depreciation); (iii) accelerating deductible 
temporary differences outside the U.S.; and (iv) selling certain assets 
that produce tax-exempt income, while purchasing assets that produce 
fully taxable income. In addition, the sale or restructuring of certain 
businesses can produce significant U.S. taxable income within the relevant 
carry-forward periods.Based upon the foregoing discussion, Citi believes the U.S. federal and New York state and city net operating loss carry-forward period of 20 years 

provides enough time to fully utilize the DTAs pertaining to the existing 

net operating loss carry-forwards and any net operating loss that would be 
created by the reversal of the future net deductions that have not yet been 
taken on a tax return.With respect to the FTCs component of the DTAs, the carry-forward period 
is 10 years. Citi believes that it will generate sufficient U.S. taxable income 
within the 10-year carry-forward period to be able to fully utilize the FTCs, in 
addition to any FTCs produced in such period, which must be used prior to 
any carry-forward utilization.For additional information on Citi™s income taxes, including its income 
tax provision, tax assets and liabilities, and a tabular summary of Citi™s net 

DTAs balance as of December 31, 2015 (including the FTCs and applicable 

expiration dates of the FTCs), see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.See the discussion in Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for 
information regarding Citi™s policies on establishing accruals for litigation 
and regulatory contingencies.
See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a 
discussion of ﬁAccounting Changesﬂ and the ﬁFuture Application of 
Accounting Standards.ﬂ123Citi™s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed under the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within 
the time periods specified in the SEC™s rules and forms, including without 
limitation that information required to be disclosed by Citi in its SEC filings 
is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) as appropriate to 
allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure.Citi™s Disclosure Committee assists the CEO and CFO in their 
responsibilities to design, establish, maintain and evaluate the effectiveness 
of Citi™s disclosure controls and procedures. The Disclosure Committee 

is responsible for, among other things, the oversight, maintenance and 

implementation of the disclosure controls and procedures, subject to the 
supervision and oversight of the CEO and CFO.Citi™s management, with the participation of its CEO and CFO, has 
evaluated the effectiveness of Citigroup™s disclosure controls and procedures 

(as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of December 31, 2015 and, based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that at that date Citigroup™s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.124Citi™s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate 
internal control over financial reporting. Citi™s internal control over 
financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally 
accepted accounting principles. Citi™s internal control over financial 
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of Citi™s assets; (ii) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that Citi™s receipts and expenditures are made only in 
accordance with authorizations of Citi™s management and directors; and 
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Citi™s assets that could have 
a material effect on its financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Also, projections of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that 
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that 
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
In addition, given Citi™s large size, complex operations and global footprint, 

lapses or deficiencies in internal controls may occur from time to time.Citi management assessed the effectiveness of Citigroup™s internal 
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015 based on the 
criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission (COSO) in
 Internal Control-Integrated Framework 
(2013). Based on this assessment, management believes that, as of 
December 31, 2015, Citi™s internal control over financial reporting was 

effective. In addition, there were no changes in Citi™s internal control over 

financial reporting during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2015 that 
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Citi™s internal 

control over financial reporting.The effectiveness of Citi™s internal control over financial reporting as 
of December 31, 2015 has been audited by KPMG LLP, Citi™s independent 

registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report below, which 

expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of Citi™s internal 

control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015.125Certain statements in this Form 10-K, including but not limited to statements included within the Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations, are ﬁforward-looking statementsﬂ 
within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995. In addition, Citigroup also may make forward-looking statements in its 
other documents filed or furnished with the SEC, and its management may 
make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, representatives 
of the media and others.Generally, forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts 
but instead represent Citigroup™s and its management™s beliefs regarding 

future events. Such statements may be identified by words such as believe, 
expect, anticipate, intend, estimate, may increase, may fluctuate, and 
similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as will, should, would 
and could.Such statements are based on management™s current expectations and are 
subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances. Actual results 
and capital and other financial conditions may differ materially from those 
included in these statements due to a variety of factors, including without 
limitation the precautionary statements included within each individual 
business™s discussion and analysis of its results of operations and the factors 

listed and described under ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ above.Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Citigroup speak only as to the date they are made, and Citi does not undertake to update 
forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events 
that arise after the date the forward-looking statements were made.126
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Citigroup Inc.:We have audited Citigroup Inc. and subsidiaries™ (the ﬁCompanyﬂ or ﬁCitigroupﬂ) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 
2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated 
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations 
of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company™s management is 
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting 
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial 
reporting, included in the accompanying management™s annual report on 
internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on the Company™s internal control over financial reporting based on 
our audit.We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards 
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was 
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an 
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered 
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a 

reasonable basis for our opinion.A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company™s 

internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance 
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and 
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company™s assets that 

could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that 
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that 
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.In our opinion, Citigroup maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on 
criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 

Commission.We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated 
balance sheet of Citigroup as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related 
consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in 
stockholders™ equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year 
period ended December 31, 2015, and our report dated February 26, 2016 
expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.New York, New YorkFebruary 26, 2016127The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Citigroup Inc.:We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Citigroup Inc. and subsidiaries (the ﬁCompanyﬂ or ﬁCitigroupﬂ) as of 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of 
income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders™ equity and cash 
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 
2015. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the 
Company™s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards 
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. 
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes 
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made 
by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement 
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for 

our opinion.In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Citigroup as 

of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of its operations and its cash 
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2015, 
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Citigroup™s internal 

control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria 
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 

(COSO), and our report dated February 26, 2016 expressed an unqualified 
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company™s internal control over 

financial reporting.New York, New YorkFebruary 26, 2016128129Consolidated Statement of IncomeŠ For the Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013130
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive IncomeŠ For the Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013131
Consolidated Balance SheetŠDecember 31, 2015 and 2014132

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders™ EquityŠ 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013134
Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowsŠ For the Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013135

Note 1 Œ Summary of Significant Accounting Policies137Note 2 Œ Discontinued Operations and Significant Disposals149
Note 3 Œ Business Segments151Note 4 Œ Interest Revenue and Expense152Note 5 Œ Commissions and Fees153Note 6 Œ Principal Transactions154Note 7 Œ Incentive Plans155Note 8 Œ Retirement Benefits159Note 9 Œ Income Taxes175Note 10 Œ Earnings per Share179Note 11 Œ Federal Funds, Securities Borrowed, Loaned and 
Subject to Repurchase Agreements180Note 12 Œ Brokerage Receivables and Brokerage Payables183Note 13 Œ Trading Account Assets and Liabilities184Note 14 Œ Investments185Note 15 Œ Loans197Note 16 Œ Allowance for Credit Losses210Note 17 Œ Goodwill and Intangible Assets212Note 18 Œ Debt215Note 19 Œ Regulatory Capital217Note 20 Œ Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive 
Income (Loss)218Note 21 Œ Preferred Stock221Note 22 Œ Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities222Note 23 Œ Derivatives Activities235Note 24 Œ Concentrations of Credit Risk248Note 25 Œ Fair Value Measurement249Note 26 Œ Fair Value Elections272Note 27 Œ Pledged Assets, Collateral, Guarantees and Commitments276Note 28 Œ Contingencies282Note 29 Œ Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements293Note 30 Œ Subsequent Event302Note 31 Œ Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)303130Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
In millions of dollars, except per share amounts
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Revenues (1)$58,551

11,921
Net interest revenue$46,630

$11,848

6,008

3,648

682

(265)—˝˙˜–

Š
$(265)
—˝˜˝–
$1,845

5,958
Total non-interest revenues
$29,724

Total revenues, net of interest expense
$76,354

Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims

$7,108

731

74
Total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$7,913

Operating expenses 
(1)
$21,769

2,878
‰
6,581
1,547

10,840 
Total operating expenses
$43,615

Income from continuing operations before income taxes$24,826


7,440
Income from continuing operations$17,386

Discontinued operations

$(83)
˛˚—˜˝˜–
Š‚

(29)˛˜—˜˝˝–
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
$(54)
—˜–
Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$17,332

90
Citigroup™s net income
$17,242

Basic earnings per share (2)
$5.43
˜™˜˛

(0.02)‚
Net income$5.41
˜™˜˛
Weighted average common shares outstanding
3,004.0
Diluted earnings per share (2)
$5.42
˜™˜˚

(0.02)‚
Net income$5.40
˜™˜˚˝™˙˝
Adjusted weighted average common shares outstanding3,007.7
—˛–

—˜–


131Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$17,332

Add: Citigroup™s other comprehensive income (loss)

$(964)


292

—˛–43–

(5,499)–
Citigroup™s total other comprehensive income (loss)
$(6,128)
–
Total comprehensive income before attribution of noncontrolling interests
$11,204


90
Citigroup™s comprehensive income
$11,114

—˛–‘ﬂ


Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
™

132Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 31,In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝Assets
$20,900

112,197€
‘
219,675
27,683‰‘–
249,956†‘–
299,136‘–
36,215‘–
7,604‰
$342,955

‘
329,783‘
287,834
$617,617


(12,626)‰
$604,991

22,349
3,721
1,781‘
125,002Total assets
$1,731,210

The following table presents certain assets of consolidated variable interest entities (VIEs), which are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet above. The assets in the table below include those assets that can only be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs, presented on the following page, and are in excess of those obligations. Additionally, the assets in the table below include third-party assets of consolidated VIEs only and exclude intercompany balances that 

eliminate in consolidation.December 31,In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝Assets of consolidated VIEs to be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs$153
˙˚˚
‰
5835,263
58,772
22,008
$80,780


(2,135)‰
$78,645

150Total assets of consolidated VIEs to be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs
$84,794


133 Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 31,In millions of dollars, except shares and per share amounts
2015˜˚˛˝Liabilities
$139,249


‘
280,234
71,577
‘
416,827‰
$907,887

€
‘
146,496
53,722‰
117,512‘
21,079‘
201,275‘
60,147Total liabilities
$1,508,118

Stockholders™ equity

668,720 as of December 31, 2015
€€
$16,718


3,099,482,042 as of December 31, 2015

31˙˛
108,288133,841‰
December 31, 2015Š146,203,311

(7,677)
(29,344)Total Citigroup stockholders™ equity
$221,857

1,235Total equity
$223,092

Total liabilities and equity
$1,731,210

The following table presents certain liabilities of consolidated VIEs, which are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet above. The liabilities in the table below include third-party liabilities of consolidated VIEs only and exclude intercompany balances that eliminate in consolidation. The liabilities also exclude amounts where creditors or beneficial interest holders have recourse to the general credit of Citigroup.December 31,In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝Liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which creditors or beneficial interest holders do not have 
recourse to the general credit of Citigroup$11,965

31,273
2,099Total liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which creditors or beneficial interest holders do not have 
recourse to the general credit of Citigroup$45,337


134Citigroup
 Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
AmountsSharesIn millions of dollars, except shares in thousands2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Preferred stock at aggregate liquidation value

$10,468

419˛˚˜
6,250
250
Š‚
Š‚—˙–
$16,718

669
Common stock and additional paid-in capital

$108,010

3,082,038
357
17,438
(23)—˙˛–
Š‚‚
(25)˙
6˛˛

$108,319

3,099,482
Retained earnings

$117,852


—˛–Š‚—˙˙˜–

$117,852


17,242
—˜–(484)—˛˜˜–—˛˜˚–
(769)
‰
Š‚
Š˛—˛–

$133,841

Treasury stock, at cost


$(2,929)

(58,119)
—˙–704
13,318
‰
—˝–(5,452)
(101,402)

$(7,677)

(146,203)
Citigroup™s accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)


$(23,216)


(6,128)

$(29,344)

Total Citigroup common stockholders™ equity
$205,139

2,953,279
Total Citigroup stockholders™ equity
$221,857

Noncontrolling interests

$1,511


Š‚
‰
‘
Š‚—˜–
‰
(164)

90
(78)

(83)
(41)
Net change in noncontrolling interests$(276)

Balance, end of period
$1,235

Total equity
$223,092

—˛–
Investments-Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Accounting for Investments in Affordable Housing,

Retained earnings

—˜–

—˙–


—˝–

135Citigroup
 Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operationsNet income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$17,332

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests90
Citigroup™s net income
$17,242

Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes
(54)—˜–
Gain on sale, net of taxes
Š‚
Income from continuing operationsŠexcluding noncontrolling interests
$17,296

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations
—˛–(3,210)‚

191˜˛˚
(62)

3,506
2,794

7,108
(682)

318
46,830

(21,524)

2,278

(7,207)
(32)

(1,135)

(6,732)
Total adjustments
$22,441

Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations
$39,737

Cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations$15,488

€
22,895
1,353

9,610
(242,362)
141,470

82,047
—˛–5,932‚

—˛–—˜–(18,929)‚

(3,198)

577
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations
$14,883

Cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations$(1,253)
—˙˛˝–
6,227
Š‚
‰
(5,452)

(428)
€
(26,942)
44,619

(52,843)
8,555
(37,256)
136Citigroup
 Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities of continuing operations
$(64,773)


$(1,055)

Discontinued operationsNet cash used in discontinued operations$Š
‚—˛˚–
Change in cash and due from banks$(11,208)

Cash and due from banks at beginning of period32,108
Cash and due from banks at end of period$20,900

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for continuing operations


$4,978


12,031
Non-cash investing activities

$Š


(9,063)‚‚

(1,402)‚‚

(223)‚‚
(404)‚‚
‰
28,600
‰
276˙˜˛
Non-cash financing activities

$(4,673)
‚‚

Š‚

Š

Š‚
—˛–

—˜–


137Throughout these Notes, ﬁCitigroup,ﬂ ﬁCitiﬂ and the ﬁCompanyﬂ refer to Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior periods™ financial statements and notes to conform to the current period™s presentation.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Citigroup 
and its subsidiaries prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (GAAP). The Company consolidates subsidiaries in 
which it holds, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting rights or 
where it exercises control. Entities where the Company holds 20% to 50% of 
the voting rights and/or has the ability to exercise significant influence, other 
than investments of designated venture capital subsidiaries or investments 
accounted for at fair value under the fair value option, are accounted for 
under the equity method, and the pro rata share of their income (loss) is 
included in Other revenue. Income from investments in less than 20% owned 
companies is recognized when dividends are received. As discussed in more 
detail in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Citigroup also 
consolidates entities deemed to be variable interest entities when Citigroup is 
determined to be the primary beneficiary. Gains and losses on the disposition 
of branches, subsidiaries, affiliates, buildings, and other investments are 
included in Other revenue.Citibank, N.A. (Citibank) is a commercial bank and wholly owned subsidiary 
of Citigroup. Citibank™s principal offerings include: consumer finance, 
mortgage lending and retail banking (including commercial banking) 
products and services; investment banking, cash management and trade 
finance; and private banking products and services.An entity is referred to as a variable interest entity (VIE) if it meets the 
criteria outlined in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 810, 
Consolidation, which are: (i) the entity has equity that is insufficient to 
permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated 
financial support from other parties; or (ii) the entity has equity investors 
that cannot make significant decisions about the entity™s operations or that 
do not absorb their proportionate share of the entity™s expected losses or 
expected returns.The Company consolidates a VIE when it has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE™s economic performance 

and a right to receive benefits or the obligation to absorb losses of the 
entity that could be potentially significant to the VIE (that is, Citi is the 
primary beneficiary).In addition to variable interests held in consolidated VIEs, the Company has variable interests in other VIEs that are not consolidated because the 
Company is not the primary beneficiary. These include multi-seller finance 

companies, certain collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), many structured 
finance transactions and various investment funds. However, these VIEs 

and all other unconsolidated VIEs are monitored by the Company to assess 
whether any events have occurred to cause its primary beneficiary status to 
change. These events include: purchases or sales of variable interests by Citigroup or an unrelated third party, which cause Citigroup™s overall variable interest ownership 
to change; changes in contractual arrangements that reallocate expected losses and 
residual returns among the variable interest holders; changes in the party that has power to direct the activities of a VIE that 
most significantly impact the entity™s economic performance; and providing financial support to an entity that results in an implicit 
variable interest.All other entities not deemed to be VIEs with which the Company has involvement are evaluated for consolidation under other subtopics of ASC 810.Assets and liabilities of Citi™s foreign operations are translated from their 
respective functional currencies into U.S. dollars using period-end spot 
foreign-exchange rates. The effects of those translation adjustments are 
reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component 
of stockholders™ equity, along with any related hedge and tax effects, until 
realized upon sale or substantial liquidation of the foreign operation. 
Revenues and expenses of Citi™s foreign operations are translated monthly 
from their respective functional currencies into U.S. dollars at amounts that 
approximate weighted average exchange rates.For transactions whose terms are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency, including transactions denominated in the local 

currencies of foreign operations with the U.S. dollar as their functional 
currency, the effects of changes in exchange rates are primarily included 

in Principal transactions, along with the related effects of any economic 
hedges. Instruments used to hedge foreign currency exposures include 
foreign currency forward, option and swap contracts and in certain instances, 
designated issues of non-U.S. dollar debt. Foreign operations in countries 
with highly inflationary economies designate the U.S. dollar as their 
functional currency, with the effects of changes in exchange rates primarily 

included in Other revenue.138Investments include fixed income and equity securities. Fixed income instruments include bonds, notes and redeemable preferred stocks, as well as 
certain loan-backed and structured securities that are subject to prepayment 
risk. Equity securities include common and nonredeemable preferred stock.Investment securities are classified and accounted for as follows: Fixed income securities classified as ﬁheld-to-maturityﬂ are securities that 
the Company has both the ability and the intent to hold until maturity 
and are carried at amortized cost. Interest income on such securities is 
included in Interest revenue. Fixed income securities and marketable equity securities classified 
as ﬁavailable-for-saleﬂ are carried at fair value with changes in fair 
value reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of Stockholders™ equity, net of applicable income taxes 
and hedges. Realized gains and losses on sales are included in income 
primarily on a specific identification cost basis. Interest and dividend 
income on such securities is included in Interest revenue. Certain investments in non-marketable equity securities and certain 
investments that would otherwise have been accounted for using the 
equity method are carried at fair value, since the Company has elected to 
apply fair value accounting. Changes in fair value of such investments are 
recorded in earnings. Certain non-marketable equity securities are carried at cost and are 
periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment, as described 
in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.For investments in fixed income securities classified as held-to-maturity or available-for-sale, the accrual of interest income is suspended for investments 
that are in default or for which it is likely that future interest payments will 
not be made as scheduled.Investment securities are subject to evaluation for other-than-temporary impairment as described in Note 14 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.The Company uses a number of valuation techniques for investments carried at fair value, which are described in Note 25 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are 
included in earnings.Trading account assets include debt and marketable equity securities, 
derivatives in a receivable position, residual interests in securitizations and 
physical commodities inventory. In addition, as described in Note 26 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain assets that Citigroup has 
elected to carry at fair value under the fair value option, such as loans and 
purchased guarantees, are also included in Trading account assets.Trading account liabilities
 include securities sold, not yet purchased (short positions) and derivatives in a net payable position, as well as certain 
liabilities that Citigroup has elected to carry at fair value (as described in 
Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).Other than physical commodities inventory, all trading account assets 
and liabilities are carried at fair value. Revenues generated from trading 
assets and trading liabilities are generally reported in Principal transactions and include realized gains and losses as well as unrealized gains and losses 
resulting from changes in the fair value of such instruments. Interest income 
on trading assets is recorded in Interest revenue reduced by interest expense 
on trading liabilities.Physical commodities inventory is carried at the lower of cost or market with related losses reported in Principal transactions. Realized gains 
and losses on sales of commodities inventory are included in Principal transactions. Investments in unallocated precious metals accounts (gold, 
silver, platinum and palladium) are accounted for as hybrid instruments 

containing a debt host contract and an embedded non-financial derivative 
instrument indexed to the price of the relevant precious metal. The embedded 
derivative instrument is separated from the debt host contract and accounted 
for at fair value. The debt host contract is accounted for at fair value 
under the fair value option, as described in Note 26 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Derivatives used for trading purposes include interest rate, currency, 
equity, credit, and commodity swap agreements, options, caps and floors, 

warrants, and financial and commodity futures and forward contracts. 
Derivative asset and liability positions are presented net by counterparty on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet when a valid master netting agreement exists 
and the other conditions set out in ASC 210-20, Balance SheetŠOffsetting, are met. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The Company uses a number of techniques to determine the fair value of trading assets and liabilities, which are described in Note 25 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.139Securities borrowing and lending transactions do not constitute a sale of the underlying securities for accounting purposes and are treated as 
collateralized financing transactions. Such transactions are recorded at the 
amount of proceeds advanced or received plus accrued interest. As described 
in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has 
elected to apply fair value accounting to a number of securities borrowing 
and lending transactions. Fees paid or received for all securities lending and 
borrowing transactions are recorded in Interest expense or Interest revenue 
at the contractually specified rate.The Company monitors the fair value of securities borrowed or loaned on a daily basis and obtains or posts additional collateral in order to maintain 
contractual margin protection.As described in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company uses a discounted cash flow technique to determine the fair value 
of securities lending and borrowing transactions.Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (repos) and securities 
purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repos) do not constitute a sale 
(or purchase) of the underlying securities for accounting purposes and are 
treated as collateralized financing transactions. As described in Note 26 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has elected to apply fair 
value accounting to the majority of such transactions, with changes in fair 
value reported in earnings. Any transactions for which fair value accounting 
has not been elected are recorded at the amount of cash advanced or received 
plus accrued interest. Irrespective of whether the Company has elected fair 
value accounting, interest paid or received on all repo and reverse repo 
transactions is recorded in Interest expense or Interest revenue at the 
contractually specified rate.Where the conditions of ASC 210-20-45-11, Balance Sheet-Offsetting: Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements, are met, repos and 
reverse repos are presented net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.The Company™s policy is to take possession of securities purchased under 
reverse repurchase agreements. The Company monitors the fair value of 
securities subject to repurchase or resale on a daily basis and obtains or posts 
additional collateral in order to maintain contractual margin protection.As described in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company uses a discounted cash flow technique to determine the fair value 
of repo and reverse repo transactions.Loans are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of any 
unearned income and unamortized deferred fees and costs except that 
credit card receivable balances also include accrued interest and fees. Loan 
origination fees and certain direct origination costs are generally deferred 
and recognized as adjustments to income over the lives of the related loans.As described in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Citi has elected fair value accounting for certain loans. Such loans are carried at fair 
value with changes in fair value reported in earnings. Interest income on 
such loans is recorded in Interest revenue at the contractually specified rate.Loans for which the fair value option has not been elected are classified upon origination or acquisition as either held-for-investment or held-for-sale. 

This classification is based on management™s initial intent and ability with 

regard to those loans.Loans that are held-for-investment are classified as 
Loans, net of unearned income on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the related cash 
flows are included within the cash flows from investing activities category 
in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on the line Change in loans. However, when the initial intent for holding a loan has changed from held-

for-investment to held-for-sale, the loan is reclassified to held-for-sale, but 

the related cash flows continue to be reported in cash flows from investing 
activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on the line Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans.Consumer LoansConsumer loans represent loans and leases managed primarily by the Global Consumer Banking (GCB) businesses and Citi Holdings.Consumer Non-Accrual and Re-Aging PoliciesAs a general rule, interest accrual ceases for installment and real estate (both 
open- and closed-end) loans when payments are 90 days contractually past 
due. For credit cards and other unsecured revolving loans, however, Citi 
generally accrues interest until payments are 180 days past due. As a result 
of OCC guidance, home equity loans in regulated bank entities are classified 
as non-accrual if the related residential first mortgage is 90 days or more 
past due. Also as a result of OCC guidance, mortgage loans in regulated bank 
entities discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other than FHA-insured 
loans, are classified as non-accrual. Commercial market loans are placed on 
a cash (non-accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual experience 
and a forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that 
the payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal 
is 90 days past due.Loans that have been modified to grant a concession to a borrower in financial difficulty may not be accruing interest at the time of the 
modification. The policy for returning such modified loans to accrual status 
varies by product and/or region. In most cases, a minimum number of 
payments (ranging from one to six) is required, while in other cases the loan 
is never returned to accrual status. For regulated bank entities, such modified 
loans are returned to accrual status if a credit evaluation at the time of, or 
subsequent to, the modification indicates the borrower is able to meet the 
restructured terms, and the borrower is current and has demonstrated a 
reasonable period of sustained payment performance (minimum six months 
of consecutive payments).140For U.S. consumer loans, generally one of the conditions to qualify for modification is that a minimum number of payments (typically ranging from one to three) must be made. Upon modification, the loan is re-aged to 
current status. However, re-aging practices for certain open-ended consumer 

loans, such as credit cards, are governed by Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines. For open-ended consumer loans 
subject to FFIEC guidelines, one of the conditions for the loan to be re-aged 
to current status is that at least three consecutive minimum monthly 
payments, or the equivalent amount, must be received. In addition, under 
FFIEC guidelines, the number of times that such a loan can be re-aged is 
subject to limitations (generally once in 12 months and twice in five years). 
Furthermore, Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and Department of 
Veterans Affairs (VA) loans may only be modified under those respective 

agencies™ guidelines and payments are not always required in order to re-age 
a modified loan to current.Consumer Charge-Off PoliciesCiti™s charge-off policies follow the general guidelines below: Unsecured installment loans are charged off at 120 days contractually past due. Unsecured revolving loans and credit card loans are charged off at 
180 days contractually past due. Loans secured with non-real estate collateral are written down to 
the estimated value of the collateral, less costs to sell, at 120 days 
contractually past due. Real estate-secured loans are written down to the estimated value of the 
property, less costs to sell, at 180 days contractually past due. Real estate-secured loans are charged off no later than 180 days 
contractually past due if a decision has been made not to foreclose on the 
loans. Non-bank real estate-secured loans are charged off at the earlier of 
180 days contractually past due, if there have been no payments within 
the last six months, or 360 days contractually past due, if a decision has 
been made not to foreclose on the loans.  Non-bank loans secured by real estate are written down to the estimated 
value of the property, less costs to sell, at the earlier of the receipt of 
title, the initiation of foreclosure (a process that must commence when 
payments are 120 days contractually past due), when the loan is 180 days 
contractually past due if there have been no payments within the past six 
months or 360 days contractually past due.  Non-bank unsecured personal loans are charged off at the earlier of 
180 days contractually past due if there have been no payments within the 
last six months, or 360 days contractually past due. Unsecured loans in bankruptcy are charged off within 60 days of 
notification of filing by the bankruptcy court or in accordance with Citi™s 
charge-off policy, whichever occurs earlier. Consistent with OCC guidance, real estate-secured loans that were 
discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other than FHA-insured loans, 
are written down to the estimated value of the property, less costs to sell. 
Other real estate-secured loans in bankruptcy are written down to the 
estimated value of the property, less costs to sell, at the later of 60 days 
after notification or 60 days contractually past due. Non-bank loans secured by real estate that are discharged through 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy are written down to the estimated value of the 
property, less costs to sell, at 60 days contractually past due.  Non-bank unsecured personal loans in bankruptcy are charged off when 
they are 30 days contractually past due. Commercial market loans are written down to the extent that principal is 
judged to be uncollectable.Corporate Loans
Corporate loans represent loans and leases managed by Institutional Clients 
Group (ICG). Corporate loans are identified as impaired and placed on a 
cash (non-accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual experience 
and a forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, 
that the payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or 
principal is 90 days past due, except when the loan is well collateralized 
and in the process of collection. Any interest accrued on impaired corporate 
loans and leases is reversed at 90 days and charged against current earnings, 
and interest is thereafter included in earnings only to the extent actually 
received in cash. When there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability 
of principal, all cash receipts are thereafter applied to reduce the recorded 
investment in the loan.Impaired corporate loans and leases are written down to the extent that principal is deemed to be uncollectable. Impaired collateral-dependent loans 
and leases, where repayment is expected to be provided solely by the sale 
of the underlying collateral and there are no other available and reliable 
sources of repayment, are written down to the lower of cost or collateral 
value. Cash-basis loans are returned to accrual status when all contractual 
principal and interest amounts are reasonably assured of repayment and 
there is a sustained period of repayment performance in accordance with the 
contractual terms.Loans Held-for-SaleCorporate and consumer loans that have been identified for sale are classified 
as loans held-for-sale and included in Other assets. The practice of Citi™s U.S. prime mortgage business has been to sell substantially all of its conforming 
loans. As such, U.S. prime mortgage conforming loans are classified as 
held-for-sale and the fair value option is elected at origination, with changes 
in fair value recorded in Other revenue. With the exception of those loans 
for which the fair value option has been elected, held-for-sale loans are 
accounted for at the lower of cost or market value, with any write-downs or 
subsequent recoveries charged to Other revenue. The related cash flows are 
classified in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in the cash flows from 
operating activities category on the line Change in loans held-for-sale.141Allowance for loan losses represents management™s best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio, including probable losses related to large 
individually evaluated impaired loans and troubled debt restructurings. 
Attribution of the allowance is made for analytical purposes only, and 
the entire allowance is available to absorb probable loan losses inherent 
in the overall portfolio. Additions to the allowance are made through the 
Provision for loan losses. Loan losses are deducted from the allowance and 
subsequent recoveries are added. Assets received in exchange for loan claims 
in a restructuring are initially recorded at fair value, with any gain or loss 
reflected as a recovery or charge-off to the provision.Consumer LoansFor consumer loans, each portfolio of non-modified smaller-balance, 
homogeneous loans is independently evaluated for impairment by product 
type (e.g., residential mortgage, credit card, etc.) in accordance with 
ASC 450, Contingencies. The allowance for loan losses attributed to these 
loans is established via a process that estimates the probable losses inherent 
in the specific portfolio. This process includes migration analysis, in which 
historical delinquency and credit loss experience is applied to the current 
aging of the portfolio, together with analyses that reflect current and 
anticipated economic conditions, including changes in housing prices and 
unemployment trends. Citi™s allowance for loan losses under ASC 450 only 
considers contractual principal amounts due, except for credit card loans 
where estimated loss amounts related to accrued interest receivable are 
also included.Management also considers overall portfolio indicators, including historical credit losses, delinquent, non-performing and classified loans, 
trends in volumes and terms of loans, an evaluation of overall credit quality, 

the credit process, including lending policies and procedures, and economic, 
geographical, product and other environmental factors.Separate valuation allowances are determined for impaired smaller-
balance homogeneous loans whose terms have been modified in a troubled 
debt restructuring (TDR). Long-term modification programs, and short-term 
(less than 12 months) modifications that provide concessions (such as 
interest rate reductions) to borrowers in financial difficulty, are reported as 

TDRs. In addition, loan modifications that involve a trial period are reported 
as TDRs at the start of the trial period. The allowance for loan losses for TDRs 
is determined in accordance with ASC 310-10-35, ReceivablesŠSubsequent 
Measurement (formerly SFAS 114) considering all available evidence, 

including, as appropriate, the present value of the expected future cash flows 
discounted at the loan™s original contractual effective rate, the secondary 

market value of the loan and the fair value of collateral less disposal costs. 
These expected cash flows incorporate modification program default rate 
assumptions. The original contractual effective rate for credit card loans is 
the pre-modification rate, which may include interest rate increases under 
the original contractual agreement with the borrower.
Valuation allowances for commercial market loans, which are classifiably 
managed Consumer loans, are determined in the same manner as for 
Corporate loans and are described in more detail in the following section. Generally, an asset-specific component is calculated under ASC 310-10-35 

on an individual basis for larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans 

that are considered impaired and the allowance for the remainder of 
the classifiably managed Consumer loan portfolio is calculated under 
ASC 450 using a statistical methodology that may be supplemented by 
management adjustment.Corporate LoansIn the corporate portfolios, the Allowance for loan losses includes an asset-
specific component and a statistically based component. The asset-specific 
component is calculated under ASC 310-10-35, on an individual basis for 
larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans, which are considered impaired. 
An asset-specific allowance is established when the discounted cash flows, 
collateral value (less disposal costs) or observable market price of the 
impaired loan are lower than its carrying value. This allowance considers the 
borrower™s overall financial condition, resources, and payment record, the 
prospects for support from any financially responsible guarantors (discussed 
further below) and, if appropriate, the realizable value of any collateral. 
The asset-specific component of the allowance for smaller balance impaired 
loans is calculated on a pool basis considering historical loss experience.The allowance for the remainder of the loan portfolio is determined under ASC 450 using a statistical methodology, supplemented by management 

judgment. The statistical analysis considers the portfolio™s size, remaining 

tenor and credit quality as measured by internal risk ratings assigned to 
individual credit facilities, which reflect probability of default and loss 
given default. The statistical analysis considers historical default rates 
and historical loss severity in the event of default, including historical 
average levels and historical variability. The result is an estimated range 

for inherent losses. The best estimate within the range is then determined 
by management™s quantitative and qualitative assessment of current 

conditions, including general economic conditions, specific industry and 
geographic trends, and internal factors including portfolio concentrations, 
trends in internal credit quality indicators, and current and past 
underwriting standards.For both the asset-specific and the statistically based components of the Allowance for loan losses, management may incorporate guarantor support. 
The financial wherewithal of the guarantor is evaluated, as applicable, 
based on net worth, cash flow statements and personal or company financial 
statements which are updated and reviewed at least annually. Citi seeks 

performance on guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business. 
Seeking performance entails obtaining satisfactory cooperation from the 
guarantor or borrower in the specific situation. This regular cooperation 
is indicative of pursuit and successful enforcement of the guarantee; the 
exposure is reduced without the expense and burden of pursuing a legal 
remedy. A guarantor™s reputation and willingness to work with Citigroup 

is evaluated based on the historical experience with the guarantor and 
the knowledge of the marketplace. In the rare event that the guarantor 
is unwilling or unable to perform or facilitate borrower cooperation, Citi 
pursues a legal remedy; however, enforcing a guarantee via legal action 

against the guarantor is not the primary means of resolving a troubled 142loan situation and rarely occurs. If Citi does not pursue a legal remedy, 
it is because Citi does not believe that the guarantor has the financial 
wherewithal to perform regardless of legal action or because there are 
legal limitations on simultaneously pursuing guarantors and foreclosure. 
A guarantor™s reputation does not impact Citi™s decision or ability to seek 

performance under the guarantee.In cases where a guarantee is a factor in the assessment of loan losses, it is included via adjustment to the loan™s internal risk rating, which in turn 

is the basis for the adjustment to the statistically based component of the 
Allowance for loan losses. To date, it is only in rare circumstances that an 

impaired commercial loan or commercial real estate loan is carried at a 
value in excess of the appraised value due to a guarantee.When Citi™s monitoring of the loan indicates that the guarantor™s 
wherewithal to pay is uncertain or has deteriorated, there is either no 
change in the risk rating, because the guarantor™s credit support was never 

initially factored in, or the risk rating is adjusted to reflect that uncertainty 
or deterioration. Accordingly, a guarantor™s ultimate failure to perform or 

a lack of legal enforcement of the guarantee does not materially impact 
the allowance for loan losses, as there is typically no further significant 
adjustment of the loan™s risk rating at that time. Where Citi is not seeking 

performance under the guarantee contract, it provides for loan losses as if the 
loans were non-performing and not guaranteed.Reserve Estimates and PoliciesManagement provides reserves for an estimate of probable losses inherent 
in the funded loan portfolio on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the 
form of an allowance for loan losses. These reserves are established in 
accordance with Citigroup™s credit reserve policies, as approved by the Audit 
Committee of the Citigroup Board of Directors. Citi™s Chief Risk Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer review the adequacy of the credit loss reserves each 
quarter with representatives from the risk management and finance staffs 
for each applicable business area. Applicable business areas include those 
having classifiably managed portfolios, where internal credit-risk ratings 
are assigned (primarily ICG and GCB) or modified Consumer loans, where 
concessions were granted due to the borrowers™ financial difficulties.The above-mentioned representatives for these business areas present recommended reserve balances for their funded and unfunded lending 
portfolios along with supporting quantitative and qualitative data 
discussed below:Estimated probable losses for non-performing, non-homogeneous 
exposures within a business line™s classifiably managed portfolio and 
impaired smaller-balance homogeneous loans whose terms have been 
modified due to the borrowers™ financial difficulties, where it was 
determined that a concession was granted to the borrower. Consideration may be given to the following, as appropriate, when determining this 
estimate: (i) the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the 
loan™s original effective rate; (ii) the borrower™s overall financial condition, 
resources and payment record; and (iii) the prospects for support from 
financially responsible guarantors or the realizable value of any collateral. 
In the determination of the allowance for loan losses for TDRs, management 
considers a combination of historical re-default rates, the current economic 
environment and the nature of the modification program when forecasting 
expected cash flows. When impairment is measured based on the present 
value of expected future cash flows, the entire change in present value is 
recorded in the Provision for loan losses.Statistically calculated losses inherent in the classifiably managed portfolio for performing and de minimis non-performing exposures. The calculation is based on: (i) Citi™s internal system of credit-risk ratings, 
which are analogous to the risk ratings of the major rating agencies; and 
(ii) historical default and loss data, including rating agency information 
regarding default rates from 1983 to 2014 and internal data dating to the 
early 1970s on severity of losses in the event of default. Adjustments may 
be made to this data. Such adjustments include: (i) statistically calculated 
estimates to cover the historical fluctuation of the default rates over the credit 
cycle, the historical variability of loss severity among defaulted loans, and the 
degree to which there are large obligor concentrations in the global portfolio; 
and (ii) adjustments made for specific known items, such as current 
environmental factors and credit trends.In addition, representatives from each of the risk management and finance staffs that cover business areas with delinquency-managed 
portfolios containing smaller-balance homogeneous loans present their 

recommended reserve balances based on leading credit indicators, including 
loan delinquencies and changes in portfolio size as well as economic trends, 
including current and future housing prices, unemployment, length of time 
in foreclosure, costs to sell and GDP. This methodology is applied separately 

for each individual product within each geographic region in which these 
portfolios exist.This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. The frequency of default, risk ratings, loss recovery rates, the size and 
diversity of individual large credits, and the ability of borrowers with foreign 
currency obligations to obtain the foreign currency necessary for orderly debt 
servicing, among other things, are all taken into account during this review. 

Changes in these estimates could have a direct impact on the credit costs in 
any period and could result in a change in the allowance.143Allowance for Unfunded Lending CommitmentsA similar approach to the allowance for loan losses is used for calculating 
a reserve for the expected losses related to unfunded lending commitments 
and standby letters of credit. This reserve is classified on the balance 
sheet in Other liabilities. Changes to the allowance for unfunded 
lending commitments are recorded in the Provision for unfunded 
lending commitments.Mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) are recognized as intangible assets 
when purchased or when the Company sells or securitizes loans acquired 
through purchase or origination and retains the right to service the loans. 
Mortgage servicing rights are accounted for at fair value, with changes in 
value recorded in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement 
of Income.Additional information on the Company™s MSRs can be found in Note 22 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value 
of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is subject to 
annual impairment testing and between annual tests if an event occurs or 
circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value 
of a reporting unit below its carrying amount.Under ASC 350, IntangiblesŠGoodwill and Other, 
the Company has an option to assess qualitative factors to determine if it is necessary to perform 
the goodwill impairment test. If, after assessing the totality of events or 
circumstances, the Company determines that it is not more-likely-than-not 
that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, no 
further testing is necessary. If, however, the Company determines that it is 

more-likely-than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its 
carrying amount, then the Company must perform the first step of the two-
step goodwill impairment test.The Company has an unconditional option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any reporting period and proceed 
directly to the first step of the goodwill impairment test. Furthermore, on any 
business dispositions, goodwill is allocated to the disposed business based 
on the ratio of the fair value of the disposed business to the fair value of the 
reporting unit.The first step requires a comparison of the fair value of the individual reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value of 
the reporting unit is in excess of the carrying value, the related goodwill 
is considered not to be impaired and no further analysis is necessary. If 

the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, this is an 
indication of potential impairment and a second step of testing is performed 
to measure the amount of impairment, if any, for that reporting unit.
If required, the second step involves calculating the implied fair value of goodwill for each of the affected reporting units. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill 
recognized in a business combination, which is the excess of the fair value of 
the reporting unit determined in step one over the fair value of the net assets 
and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit were being acquired. 
If the amount of the goodwill allocated to the reporting unit exceeds the 
implied fair value of the goodwill in the pro forma purchase price allocation, 
an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. A recognized impairment 
charge cannot exceed the amount of goodwill allocated to a reporting unit 
and cannot subsequently be reversed even if the fair value of the reporting 
unit recovers.Additional information on Citi™s goodwill impairment testing can be 
found in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Intangible assets, including core deposit intangibles, present value of future 
profits, purchased credit card relationships, other customer relationships, 
and other intangible assets, but excluding MSRs, are amortized over their 
estimated useful lives. Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful 
lives, primarily certain asset management contracts and trade names, are 
not amortized and are subject to annual impairment tests. An impairment 
exists if the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its 
fair value. For other intangible assets subject to amortization, an impairment 
is recognized if the carrying amount is not recoverable and exceeds the fair 
value of the intangible asset.Similar to the goodwill impairment analysis, in performing the annual impairment analysis for indefinite-lived intangible assets, Citi may and has 
elected to bypass the optional qualitative assessment, choosing instead to 
perform a quantitative analysis.Other assets include, among other items, loans held-for-sale, deferred tax 
assets, equity method investments, interest and fees receivable, premises and 
equipment (including purchased and developed software), repossessed assets, 
and other receivables. Other liabilities include, among other items, accrued 
expenses and other payables, deferred tax liabilities, and reserves for legal 
claims, taxes, unfunded lending commitments, repositioning reserves, and 
other matters.Real estate or other assets received through foreclosure or repossession are 
generally reported in Other assets, net of a valuation allowance for selling 
costs and subsequent declines in fair value.144The Company primarily securitizes credit card receivables and mortgages. Other types of securitized assets include corporate debt instruments (in cash 
and synthetic form).There are two key accounting determinations that must be made relating to securitizations. Citi first makes a determination as to whether the 
securitization entity must be consolidated. Second, it determines whether the 
transfer of financial assets to the entity is considered a sale under GAAP. If 

the securitization entity is a VIE, the Company consolidates the VIE if it is the 
primary beneficiary (as discussed in ﬁVariable Interest Entitiesﬂ above). For 

all other securitization entities determined not to be VIEs in which Citigroup 
participates, consolidation is based on which party has voting control of 
the entity, giving consideration to removal and liquidation rights in certain 

partnership structures. Only securitization entities controlled by Citigroup 
are consolidated.Interests in the securitized and sold assets may be retained in the form of subordinated or senior interest-only strips, subordinated tranches, spread 
accounts and servicing rights. In credit card securitizations, the Company 
retains a seller™s interest in the credit card receivables transferred to the trusts, 

which is not in securitized form. In the case of consolidated securitization 
entities, including the credit card trusts, these retained interests are not 
reported on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The securitized loans remain 

on the balance sheet. Substantially all of the Consumer loans sold or 
securitized through non-consolidated trusts by Citigroup are U.S. prime 
residential mortgage loans. Retained interests in non-consolidated mortgage 
securitization trusts are classified as Trading account assets
, except for 
MSRs, which are included in Mortgage servicing rights on Citigroup™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheet.Short-term borrowings and Long-term debt are accounted for at amortized 
cost, except where the Company has elected to report the debt instruments, 
including certain structured notes at fair value, or the debt is in a fair value 
hedging relationship.For a transfer of financial assets to be considered a sale: (i) the assets must 
have been legally isolated from the Company, even in bankruptcy or other 
receivership; (ii) the purchaser must have the right to pledge or sell the assets 
transferred or, if the purchaser is an entity whose sole purpose is to engage in 
securitization and asset-backed financing activities through the issuance of 
beneficial interests and that entity is constrained from pledging the assets it 
receives, each beneficial interest holder must have the right to sell or pledge 
their beneficial interests; and (iii) the Company may not have an option or 
obligation to reacquire the assets.If these sale requirements are met, the assets are removed from the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. If the conditions for sale are not 

met, the transfer is considered to be a secured borrowing, the assets remain 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the sale proceeds are recognized as the Company™s liability. A legal opinion on a sale generally is obtained for 

complex transactions or where the Company has continuing involvement 
with assets transferred or with the securitization entity. For a transfer to 

be eligible for sale accounting, those opinions must state that the asset 
transfer would be considered a sale and that the assets transferred would 
not be consolidated with the Company™s other assets in the event of the 

Company™s insolvency.
For a transfer of a portion of a financial asset to be considered a sale, the portion transferred must meet the definition of a participating interest. 
A participating interest must represent a pro rata ownership in an entire 
financial asset; all cash flows must be divided proportionately, with the 

same priority of payment; no participating interest in the transferred asset 
may be subordinated to the interest of another participating interest holder; 
and no party may have the right to pledge or exchange the entire financial 
asset unless all participating interest holders agree. Otherwise, the transfer is 
accounted for as a secured borrowing.See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
The Company manages its exposures to market rate movements outside its 
trading activities by modifying the asset and liability mix, either directly 
or through the use of derivative financial products, including interest-rate 
swaps, futures, forwards, and purchased options, as well as foreign-exchange 
contracts. These end-user derivatives are carried at fair value in Other assets, Other liabilities, Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities.To qualify as an accounting hedge under the hedge accounting rules 
(versus an economic hedge where hedge accounting is not sought), a 
derivative must be highly effective in offsetting the risk designated as being 
hedged. The hedge relationship must be formally documented at inception, 
detailing the particular risk management objective and strategy for the 
hedge. This includes the item and risk being hedged, the derivative being 
used and how effectiveness will be assessed and ineffectiveness measured. 
The effectiveness of these hedging relationships is evaluated both on a 
retrospective and prospective basis, typically using quantitative measures 
of correlation with hedge ineffectiveness measured and recorded in 
current earnings.If a hedge relationship is not highly effective, it no longer qualifies as an accounting hedge and hedge accounting may not be applied. Any gains or 
losses attributable to the derivatives, as well as subsequent changes in fair 
value, are recognized in Other revenue or Principal transactions with no 
offset to the hedged item, similar to trading derivatives.The foregoing criteria are applied on a decentralized basis, consistent with the level at which market risk is managed, but are subject to various limits 
and controls. The underlying asset, liability or forecasted transaction may be 
an individual item or a portfolio of similar items.145For fair value hedges, in which derivatives hedge the fair value of assets or liabilities, changes in the fair value of derivatives are reflected in Other revenue, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged item related to the hedged risk. These amounts are expected to, and generally do, offset 
each other. Any net amount, representing hedge ineffectiveness, is reflected 

in current earnings. Citigroup™s fair value hedges are primarily hedges of 

fixed-rate long-term debt and available-for-sale securities.
For cash flow hedges, in which derivatives hedge the variability of cash flows related to floating- and fixed-rate assets, liabilities or forecasted 
transactions, the accounting treatment depends on the effectiveness of 
the hedge. To the extent these derivatives are effective in offsetting the 

variability of the hedged cash flows, the effective portion of the changes 
in the derivatives™ fair values will not be included in current earnings, but 
is reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These changes in fair value will be included in earnings of future periods when 
the hedged cash flows impact earnings. To the extent these derivatives are 

not effective, changes in their fair values are immediately included in Other revenue. Citigroup™s cash flow hedges primarily include hedges of floating-

rate debt and floating-rate assets, including loans and securities purchased 
under agreements to resell, as well as rollovers of short-term fixed-rate 
liabilities and floating-rate liabilities and forecasted debt issuances.For net investment hedges in which derivatives hedge the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, the accounting 
treatment will similarly depend on the effectiveness of the hedge. The effective 
portion of the change in fair value of the derivative, including any forward 
premium or discount, is reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss) as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment.For those accounting hedge relationships that are terminated or when hedge designations are removed, the hedge accounting treatment described 
in the paragraphs above is no longer applied. Instead, the end-user derivative 
is terminated or transferred to the trading account. For fair value hedges, any 
changes in the fair value of the hedged item remain as part of the basis of the 
asset or liability and are ultimately reflected as an element of the yield. For 
cash flow hedges, any changes in fair value of the end-user derivative remain 
in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are included in 
earnings of future periods when the hedged cash flows impact earnings. 
However, if it becomes probable that some or all of the hedged forecasted 

transactions will not occur, any amounts that remain in 
Accumulated other 
comprehensive income (loss) related to these transactions are immediately 
reflected in Other revenue.End-user derivatives that are economic hedges, rather than qualifying for hedge accounting, are also carried at fair value, with changes in value 
included in Principal transactions or Other revenue. Citigroup often 
uses economic hedges when qualifying for hedge accounting would be too 
complex or operationally burdensome. Examples are hedges of the credit 
risk component of commercial loans and loan commitments. Citigroup periodically evaluates its hedging strategies in other areas and may designate 
either a qualifying hedge or an economic hedge, after considering the 
relative costs and benefits. Economic hedges are also employed when the 
hedged item itself is marked to market through current earnings, such as 
hedges of commitments to originate one-to-four-family mortgage loans to be 

held for sale and MSRs. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for a further discussion of the Company™s hedging and derivative activities.
Employee benefits expense includes current service costs of pension and 
other postretirement benefit plans (which are accrued on a current basis), 
contributions and unrestricted awards under other employee plans, the 
amortization of restricted stock awards and costs of other employee benefits.
For its most significant pension and postretirement benefit plans (Significant 
Plans), Citigroup measures and discloses plan obligations, plan assets 
and periodic plan expense quarterly, instead of annually. The effect of 
remeasuring the Significant Plan obligations and assets by updating plan 
actuarial assumptions on a quarterly basis is reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and periodic plan expense. All other plans 
(All Other Plans) are remeasured annually. See Note 8 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.The Company recognizes compensation expense related to stock and option 
awards over the requisite service period, generally based on the instruments™ 
grant-date fair value, reduced by expected forfeitures. Compensation cost 
related to awards granted to employees who meet certain age plus years-of-
service requirements (retirement-eligible employees) is accrued in the year 
prior to the grant date, in the same manner as the accrual for cash incentive 
compensation. Certain stock awards with performance conditions or certain 
clawback provisions are subject to variable accounting, pursuant to which 
the associated compensation expense fluctuates with changes in Citigroup™s 
stock price. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S. and its states and 
municipalities, and the foreign jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax 
laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and 
the relevant governmental taxing authorities. In establishing a provision for 
income tax expense, the Company must make judgments and interpretations 
about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. The Company 
must also make estimates about when in the future certain items will affect 
taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign.Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be subject to review and adjudication by the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or 
may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The 
Company treats interest and penalties on income taxes as a component of 
Income tax expense.146Deferred taxes are recorded for the future consequences of events that have been recognized for financial statements or tax returns, based upon enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject 
to management™s judgment that realization is more-likely-than-not. 

FASB Interpretation No. 48, ﬁAccounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesﬂ 

(FIN 48) (now incorporated into ASC 740, Income Taxes)
, sets out a 
consistent framework to determine the appropriate level of tax reserves to 
maintain for uncertain tax positions. This interpretation uses a two-step 
approach wherein a tax benefit is recognized if a position is more-likely-
than-not to be sustained. The amount of the benefit is then measured to be 
the highest tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized. ASC 740 
also sets out disclosure requirements to enhance transparency of an entity™s 

tax reserves.See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of the Company™s tax provision and related income tax assets 

and liabilities.Commissions revenues are recognized in income when earned. Underwriting 
revenues are recognized in income typically at the closing of the transaction. 
Principal transactions revenues are recognized in income on a trade-date 
basis. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description 
of the Company™s revenue recognition policies for commissions and fees, 
and Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details of principal 
transactions revenue.Earnings per share (EPS) is computed after deducting preferred stock 
dividends. The Company has granted restricted and deferred share awards 
with dividend rights that are considered to be participating securities, 
which are akin to a second class of common stock. Accordingly, a portion 
of Citigroup™s earnings is allocated to those participating securities in the 
EPS calculation.Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders after the allocation of dividends and undistributed 
earnings to the participating securities by the weighted average number 
of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per 
share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other 
contracts to issue common stock were exercised. It is computed after giving 
consideration to the weighted average dilutive effect of the Company™s stock 

options and warrants and convertible securities and after the allocation of 
earnings to the participating securities.Management must make estimates and assumptions that affect the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. Such estimates are used in connection with certain 
fair value measurements. See Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions on estimates used in the determination of 
fair value. Moreover, estimates are significant in determining the amounts 
of other-than-temporary impairments, impairments of goodwill and other 
intangible assets, provisions for probable losses that may arise from credit-
related exposures and probable and estimable losses related to litigation 
and regulatory proceedings, and tax reserves. While management makes its 
best judgment, actual amounts or results could differ from those estimates. 
Current market conditions increase the risk and complexity of the judgments 
in these estimates.Cash equivalents are defined as those amounts included in Cash and due from banks. Cash flows from risk management activities are classified in the 
same category as the related assets and liabilities.The Company has related party transactions with certain of its subsidiaries 
and affiliates. These transactions, which are primarily short-term in nature, 
include cash accounts, collateralized financing transactions, margin 
accounts, derivative transactions, charges for operational support and the 
borrowing and lending of funds, and are entered into in the ordinary course 
of business.In April 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2015-03, InterestŠImputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the 
Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs, to conform the presentation of debt 
issuance costs to that of debt discounts and premiums. Thus, the ASU 
requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be 
presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying 
amount of that debt liability. The guidance is effective beginning on 
January 1, 2016; however, Citi elected to early adopt the ASU on July 1, 2015 
which resulted in an approximately $150 million reclassification from 
Other assets to Long-term debt. The retrospective application was deemed 
immaterial and, as such, prior periods were not restated.In January 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-01, InvestmentsŠEquity 
Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Accounting for Investments 
in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects. Any transition adjustment 
is reflected as an adjustment to retained earnings in the earliest period 
presented (retrospective application).The ASU is applicable to Citi™s portfolio of low income housing tax 
credit (LIHTC) partnership interests. The new standard widens the scope 
of investments eligible to elect to apply a new alternative method, the 
proportional amortization method, under which the cost of the investment is 
amortized to tax expense in proportion to the amount of tax credits and other 147tax benefits received. Citi qualifies to elect the proportional amortization method under the ASU for its entire LIHTC portfolio. These investments were 
previously accounted for under the equity method, which resulted in losses 
(due to amortization of the investment) being recognized in Other revenue and tax credits and benefits being recognized in the Income tax expense line. In contrast, the proportional amortization method combines the 
amortization of the investment and receipt of the tax credits/benefits into one 
line, Income tax expense.Citi adopted ASU 2014-01 in the first quarter of 2015. The adoption of this ASU was applied retrospectively and cumulatively reduced Retained earnings by approximately $349 million, Other assets by approximately 
$178 million, and deferred tax assets by approximately $171 million. In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-11, Transfers and Servicing 
(Topic 860): Repurchase-to-Maturity Transactions, Repurchase 
Financings, and Disclosures. The ASU changes the accounting for 
repurchase-to-maturity transactions and linked repurchase financings to 
secured borrowing accounting, which is consistent with the accounting 
for other repurchase agreements. The ASU also requires disclosures about 
transfers accounted for as sales in transactions that are economically 
similar to repurchase agreements (see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements) and about the types of collateral pledged in repurchase 
agreements and similar transactions accounted for as secured borrowings 
(see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The ASU™s provisions 
became effective for Citi in the first quarter of 2015, with the exception of the 
collateral disclosures which became effective in the second quarter of 2015. 
The effect of adopting the ASU is required to be reflected as a cumulative 
effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period 
of adoption. Adoption of the ASU did not have a material effect on the 
Company™s financial statements.
In May 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-07, Fair Value Measurement 
(Topic 820): Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities That 
Calculate Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent), which is intended to reduce diversity in practice related to the categorization of investments 
measured at NAV within the fair value hierarchy. The ASU removes the 
current requirement to categorize investments for which fair value is 
measured using the NAV per share practical expedient within the fair 
value hierarchy. Citi elected to early adopt the ASU in the second quarter 
of 2015. The adoption of the ASU was applied retrospectively and reduced 
Level 3 assets by $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 
December 31, 2014, respectively.The FASB issued ASU No. 2014-08, Presentation of Financial Statements 
(Topic 810) and Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic 360), Reporting 
Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of 
an Entity (ASU 2014-08) in April 2014. ASU 2014-08 changes the criteria 
for reporting discontinued operations while enhancing disclosures. Under 
the ASU, only disposals representing a strategic shift having a major effect 
on an entity™s operations and financial results, such as a disposal of a 
major geographic area, a major line of business or a major equity method 
investment, may be presented as discontinued operations. Additionally, the 
ASU requires expanded disclosures about discontinued operations that will 
provide more information about the assets, liabilities, income and expenses 
of discontinued operations.The Company early-adopted the ASU in the second quarter of 2014 on a prospective basis for all disposals (or classifications as held-for-sale) of 

components of an entity that occurred on or after April 1, 2014. As a result 
of the adoption of the ASU, fewer disposals will now qualify for reporting 
as discontinued operations; however, disclosure of the pretax income 

attributable to a disposal of a significant part of an organization that does 
not qualify for discontinued operations reporting is required. The impact of 
adopting the ASU was not material.
In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-14, Receivables-Troubled 
Debt Restructuring by Creditors (Subtopic 310-40): Classification of 
Certain Government-Guaranteed Mortgage Loans upon Foreclosure, which requires that a mortgage loan be derecognized and a separate other 
receivable be recognized upon foreclosure if the following conditions are met: 
(i) the loan has a government guarantee that is not separable from the loan 
before foreclosure; (ii) at the time of foreclosure, the creditor has the intent 
to convey the real estate property to the guarantor and make a claim on the 
guarantee, and the creditor has the ability to recover under that claim; and 
(iii) at the time of foreclosure, any amount of the claim that is determined 
on the basis of the fair value of the real estate is fixed. Upon foreclosure, 
the separate other receivable is measured based on the amount of the loan 
balance (principal and interest) expected to be recovered from the guarantor.Citi early adopted the ASU on a modified retrospective basis in the fourth quarter of 2014, which resulted in reclassifying approximately $130 million 
of foreclosed assets from Other Real Estate Owned to a separate other 
receivable that is included in Other assets. Given the modified retrospective 
approach to adoption, prior periods have not been restated.148In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial 
InstrumentsŠOverall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and 
Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, which addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and 
disclosure of financial instruments.This ASU will require entities to present separately in OCI the portion of the total change in the fair value of a liability resulting from a change 
in the instrument-specific credit risk (DVA) when the entity has elected to 

measure the liability at fair value in accordance with the fair value option 
for financial instruments. It will also require equity investments (except 
those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that 
result in consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with 
changes in fair value recognized in net income, thus eliminating eligibility 
for the current available-for-sale category. However, Federal Reserve Bank and 

Federal Home Loan Bank stock as well as exchange seats will continue to be 
presented at cost. As a practical expedient, an entity may choose to measure 
equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values at cost 
minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable 

price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment 
of the same issuer.
The guidance is effective beginning on January 1, 2018; however, 
early adoption is permitted only for the amendment in the ASU related to 
presentation of DVA for financial liabilities measured under the fair value 

option. Citi expects to early adopt this amendment as of January 1, 2016. 
The impact of adopting this amendment is not expected to be material to 
Citi™s balance sheet at January 1, 2016; however, in subsequent periods the 

changes in DVA are dependent on changes in Citi™s credit spreads and could 

be material in any given period.In February 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-02, Consolidation 
(Topic 810): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis, which intended to improve certain areas of consolidation guidance for legal entities such 
as limited partnerships, limited liability companies, and securitization 
structures. The ASU reduced the number of consolidation models and 
became effective on January 1, 2016. Adoption of ASU 2015-02 did not have a 
material impact on the Company™s Consolidated Financial Statements.In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts 
with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of 
revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised 
goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective on January 1, 2018. 
Early application is permitted for annual periods beginning after 
December 15, 2016; however, the Company does not expect to early adopt. 
The ASU is not applicable to financial instruments and, therefore, is not 
expected to impact a majority of the Company™s revenue, including net 
interest income. The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will 
have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.In December 2012, the FASB issued a proposed ASU, Financial 
InstrumentsŠCredit Losses. This proposed ASU, or exposure draft, was 
issued for public comment in order to allow stakeholders the opportunity 
to review the proposal and provide comments to the FASB and does not 
constitute accounting guidance until a final ASU is issued.The exposure draft contains proposed guidance developed by the FASB 
with the goal of improving financial reporting about expected credit losses on 
loans, securities and other financial assets held by financial institutions and 
other organizations. The exposure draft proposes a new accounting model 
intended to require earlier recognition of credit losses, while also providing 
additional transparency about credit risk.The FASB™s proposed model would utilize an ﬁexpected credit lossﬂ 
measurement objective for the recognition of credit losses for loans, held-
to-maturity securities and other receivables at the time the financial asset 
is originated or acquired and adjusted each period for changes in expected 
credit losses. For available-for-sale securities where fair value is less than cost, 

credit-related impairment would be recognized in an allowance for credit 
losses and adjusted each period for changes in credit risk. This would replace 
the multiple existing impairment models in GAAP, which generally require 

that a loss be incurred before it is recognized.The FASB™s proposed model represents a significant departure from 
existing GAAP, and may result in material changes to the Company™s 

accounting for financial instruments. The impact of the FASB™s final ASU 

on the Company™s financial statements will be assessed when it is issued. 

The Company expects that the final ASU will be effective for Citi as of 
January 1, 2019.In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), 
which is intended to increase transparency and comparability of accounting 
for lease transactions. The ASU will require all leases to be recognized 
on the balance sheet as lease assets and lease liabilities and will require 
both quantitative and qualitative disclosures regarding key information 
about leasing arrangements. Lessor accounting is largely unchanged. The 
guidance is effective beginning January 1, 2019 with an option to early 
adopt. The Company is evaluating whether to early adopt and the effect that 
ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements, regulatory 
capital and related disclosures.149The following Discontinued operations are recorded within the Corporate/Other segment.Citi sold its non-Citibank-branded cards and consumer finance business 
in Brazil (Credicard) in 2013 and reported it as Discontinued operations. 
Residual costs and resolution of certain contingencies from the disposal 
resulted in income from Discontinued operations, net of taxes, of $6 million 
and $52 million for 2015 and 2014, respectively.Citi sold its liquid strategies business within Citi Capital Advisors (CCA) 
pursuant to two separate transactions in 2013 and reported them as 
Discontinued operations. Residual costs from the disposals resulted in 
income and losses from Discontinued operations, net of taxes, of $1 million 
and $4 million for 2015 and 2014, respectively.Citi completed the sale of the Egg Banking plc (Egg) credit card business in 
2011 and reported it as Discontinued operations. Residual costs from the 
disposal resulted in losses from Discontinued operations, net of taxes, of 
$61 million and $30 million for 2015 and 2014, respectively.Citi completed the sale of its German retail banking operations in 2008 and 
reported them as Discontinued operations. During 2014, residual costs from 
the disposal resulted in a tax expense of $20 million.The following is summarized financial information for Credicard, CCA, Egg 
and previous Discontinued operations for which Citi continues to have 
minimal residual costs associated with the sales:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Total revenues, net of interest expense 
(1)$Š
ˆˇ˝ˆ

$(83)
ˆ˛˚ˆ
Š

(29)˛˜
Income (loss) from discontinued  operations, net of taxes
$(54)
ˆˆ˜ˇ˚
’
Cash flows for the Discontinued operations were not material for all periods presented.The following sales completed during 2015 and 2014 were identified as 
significant disposals. The major classes of assets and liabilities derecognized 
from the Consolidated Balance Sheet at closing and the income (loss) before 
taxes related to each business until the disposal date are presented below.On November 15, 2015, Citi sold its OneMain Financial business, which 
was part of Citi Holdings, including 1,100 retail branches, 5,500 employees, 
and approximately 1.3 million customer accounts. One Main Financial 
had approximately $10.2 billion of assets, including $7.8 billion of loans 
(net of allowance), and $1.4 billion of available-for-sale securities. The 
total amount of liabilities sold was $8.4 billion, including $6.2 billion of 
long-term debt, and $1.1 billion of short-term borrowings. The transaction 
generated a pre-tax gain on sale of $2.6 billion, recorded in Other revenue ($1.6 billion after-tax). However, when combined with the loss on 
redemption of certain long-term debt supporting remaining Citi Holdings™ 
assets, the resulting net after-tax gain was $0.8 billion.Income before taxes, excluding the pretax gain on sale and loss on redemption of debt, is as follows:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Income before taxes$663
ˆˆ
150On December 14, 2015, Citi sold its Japan cards business, which was part of Citi Holdings, including $1,350 million of consumer loans (net of 
allowance), approximately 720,000 customer accounts and 840 employees. 
The transaction generated a pretax gain on sale of $180 million, recorded 
in Other revenue ($155 million after-tax). Income (loss) before taxes, 
excluding the pretax gain on sale, is as follows:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Income (loss) before taxes$(5)
ˆˆ
On November 1, 2015, Citi sold its Japan retail banking business, which 
was part of Citi Holdings, including $563 million of consumer loans (net 
of allowance), $20 billion of deposits, approximately 725,000 customer 
accounts, 1,600 employees and 32 branches. The transaction generated 
a pretax gain on sale of $446 million, recorded in Other revenue ($276 million after-tax). Income (loss) before taxes (benefits), excluding 
the pretax gain on sale, is as follows:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Income (loss) before taxes$(57)
ˆˆ˙˛
On September 22, 2014, Citi sold its consumer operations in Spain, which 
were part of Citi Holdings, including $1.7 billion of consumer loans 
(net of allowance), $3.4 billion of assets under management, $2.2 billion 
of customer deposits, 45 branches, 48 ATMs and 938 employees, with the buyer assuming the related current pension commitments at closing. The 
transaction generated a pretax gain on sale of $243 million, recorded in 
Other revenue ($131 million after-tax). Income before taxes, excluding the pretax gain on sale, is as follows:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Income before taxes$Šˆ˛˙˚ˆ
On September 30, 2014, Citi sold its consumer operations in Greece, which 
were part of Citi Holdings, including $353 million of consumer loans 
(net of allowance), $1.1 billion of assets under management, $1.2 billion 
of customer deposits, 20 branches, 85 ATMs and 719 employees, with the buyer assuming certain limited pension obligations related to Diners™ Club™s 
employees at closing. The transaction generated a pretax gain on sale of 
$209 million, recorded in Other revenue ($91 million after-tax). Income (loss) before taxes, excluding the pretax gain on sale, is as follows:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Income (loss) before taxes$Šˆˆ
151Citigroup™s activities are conducted through the 
GCB, ICG, Corporate/Other and Citi Holdings business segments.GCB includes a global, full-service consumer franchise delivering a wide array of banking, including commercial banking, credit card lending and investment services through a network of local branches, offices and 
electronic delivery systems and is composed of four GCB businesses: North 
America, EMEA, Latin America and Asia.ICG is composed of Banking and Markets and securities services and provides corporate, institutional, public sector and high-net-worth clients in 
approximately 100 countries with a broad range of banking and financial 
products and services.Corporate/Other includes certain unallocated costs of global functions, other corporate expenses and net treasury results, unallocated corporate 
expenses, offsets to certain line-item reclassifications and eliminations, the 
results of discontinued operations and unallocated taxes.Citi Holdings is composed of businesses and portfolios of assets that Citigroup has determined are not central to its core Citicorp businesses.The accounting policies of these reportable segments are the same as those disclosed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The prior-period balances reflect reclassifications to conform the 
presentation for all periods to the current period™s presentation. Effective 

January 1, 2015, financial data was reclassified from Citicorp to Citi Holdings 
for the consumer businesses in 11 markets and the consumer finance 
business in Korea in GCB and certain businesses in ICG that Citi had plans to 
exit, changes in Citi™s charge-out of certain assets and non-interest revenues 

from the Corporate/Other segment to Citi™s businesses, changes in charge-

outs of certain administrative, operations and technology costs among Citi™s 

businesses, the re-attribution of regional results within ICG and certain other immaterial reclassifications. Citi™s consolidated results remained unchanged 

for all periods presented as a result of the changes discussed above.In addition, as discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Citi adopted ASU 2014-01 in the first quarter of 2015. The ASU 
is applicable to Citi™s portfolio of low income housing tax credit partnership 

interests. Citi™s disclosures reflect the retrospective application of the ASU and 

impacts Citi™s consolidated assets, revenues, provision for income taxes and 

net income for all periods presented.The following table presents certain information regarding the Company™s 
continuing operations by segment:Revenues, 
net of interest expense
 (1)Provision (benefits) 
for income taxesIncome (loss) from continuing operations (2)Identifiable assetsIn millions of dollars, except  

identifiable assets in billions
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
2015˜˚˛˝Global Consumer Banking$33,862
ˆˆ
$3,393
ˆ˙˘˝˛˝ˆ˙˘˙ˇ˛
$6,382
ˆˆ
$394
ˆ˝˚ˇ
Institutional Clients Group33,748˙˙˘˙˜˜
4,383
9,451
1,211Corporate/Other
907˙˚˛˙˜˜
(1,339)
495
52
$68,517
ˆˆ
$6,437
ˆˆ
$16,328
ˆˆ
$1,657
ˆ
7,837
1,003
1,058
74Total
$76,354
ˆˆ
$7,440
ˆˆ
$17,386
ˆˆ˛˙˘ˇ˛ˇ
$1,731
ˆ
Corporate/Other
North America
EMEA
Latin 
America
Asia•š

GCB
ICG
•š
152Interest revenue and Interest expense consisted of the following:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Interest revenue
$40,510
ˆˆ
727˛˘˚˜ˇ

2,516˜˘˙ˇˇ

7,017

5,942
1,839ˇ˚˜
Total interest revenue
$58,551
ˆˆ
Interest expense

$5,052
ˆˆˇ˘˜˙ˇ

1,614

216
522
4,517
Total interest expense
$11,921
ˆˆ
Net interest revenue$46,630
ˆˆ

7,108
Net interest revenue after provision for loan losses
$39,522
ˆˆ
 Trading account liabilities
ICGTrading account assets.


Other interestš
•š
153The primary components of Commissions and fees revenue are investment banking fees, trading-related fees, credit card and bank card fees and fees 
related to trade and securities services in ICG.Investment banking fees are substantially composed of underwriting and advisory revenues and are recognized when Citigroup™s performance under 

the terms of a contractual arrangement is completed, which is typically at the 
closing of the transaction. Underwriting revenue is recorded in Commissions and fees, net of both reimbursable and non-reimbursable expenses, 
consistent with the AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide for Brokers and 

Dealers in Securities (codified in ASC 940-605-05-1). Expenses associated 
with advisory transactions are recorded in Other operating expenses, net of 
client reimbursements. Out-of-pocket expenses are deferred and recognized 
at the time the related revenue is recognized. In general, expenses incurred 
related to investment banking transactions that fail to close (are not 
consummated) are recorded gross in Other operating expenses.Trading-related fees primarily include commissions and fees from the 
following: executing transactions for clients on exchanges and over-the-

counter markets; sale of mutual funds, insurance and other annuity 
products; and assisting clients in clearing transactions, providing brokerage 
services and other such activities. Trading-related fees are recognized 

when earned in Commissions and fees. Gains or losses, if any, on these 

transactions are included in Principal transactions (see Note 6 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements).Credit card and bank card fees are primarily composed of interchange revenue and certain card fees, including annual fees, reduced by reward 
program costs and certain partner payments. Interchange revenue and fees 
are recognized when earned. Annual card fees are deferred and amortized 
on a straight-line basis over a 12-month period. Reward costs are recognized 
when points are earned by the customers. The following table presents 
Commissions and fees revenue:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
$3,423
ˆˆ

2,345
1,786

1,735
685

493

497

404
480˜ˇˇ
Total commissions and fees
$11,848
ˆ˛˙˘˚˙˜ˆ


154Principal transactions revenue consists of realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading activities. Trading activities include revenues 
from fixed income, equities, credit and commodities products and foreign 
exchange transactions which are managed on a portfolio basis characterized 
by primary risk. Not included in the table below is the impact of net 
interest revenue related to trading activities, which is an integral part of trading activities™ profitability. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for information about net interest revenue related to trading 
activities. Principal transactions include CVA (credit valuation adjustments 
on derivatives), FVA (funding valuation adjustments) on over-the-counter 
derivatives and DVA (debt valuation adjustments on issued liabilities for 
which the fair value option has been elected). These adjustments are 
discussed further in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The following table presents principal transactions revenue:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Global Consumer Banking$636
ˆˆ
Institutional Clients Group5,823
Corporate/Other
(444)
$6,015
ˆˇ˘˜˜˝ˆ
(7)
˛˜ˇ
Total Citigroup
$6,008
ˆˆ

$3,798
ˆˆ
1,532
(303)
750
231˙˝˝
Total
$6,008
ˆˆ










155Citigroup grants immediate cash bonus payments, deferred cash awards, stock payments and restricted and deferred stock awards as part of its 
discretionary annual incentive award program involving a large segment of 
Citigroup™s employees worldwide. Most of the shares of common stock issued 
by Citigroup as part of its equity compensation programs are to settle the 
vesting of the stock components of these awards.Discretionary annual incentive awards are generally awarded in the first quarter of the year based upon the previous year™s performance. Awards 

valued at less than U.S. $100,000 (or the local currency equivalent) are 
generally paid entirely in the form of an immediate cash bonus. Pursuant 
to Citigroup policy and/or regulatory requirements, certain employees and 
officers are subject to mandatory deferrals of incentive pay and generally 
receive 25% to 60% of their awards in a combination of restricted or deferred 
stock and deferred cash. Discretionary annual incentive awards to many 
employees in the EU are subject to deferral requirements regardless of the 
total award value, with 50% of the immediate incentive delivered in the form 
of a stock payment or stock unit award subject to a restriction on sale or 
transfer or hold back (generally, for six months).
Deferred annual incentive awards may be delivered as two awardsŠa restricted or deferred stock award under Citi™s Capital Accumulation 

Program (CAP) and a deferred cash award. The applicable mix of CAP and 
deferred cash awards may vary based on the employee™s minimum deferral 

requirement and the country of employment. In some cases, the entire 
deferral will be in the form of either a CAP or deferred cash award.Subject to certain exceptions (principally, for retirement-eligible 
employees), continuous employment within Citigroup is required to vest 
in CAP and deferred cash awards. Post-employment vesting by retirement-
eligible employees and participants who meet other conditions is generally 
conditioned upon their refraining from competition with Citigroup during 
the remaining vesting period, unless the employment relationship has been 
terminated by Citigroup under certain conditions.Generally, the CAP and deferred cash awards vest in equal annual 
installments over three- or four-year periods. Vested CAP awards are delivered 

in shares of common stock. Deferred cash awards are payable in cash 
and earn a fixed notional rate of interest that is paid only if and when the 
underlying principal award amount vests. Generally, in the EU, vested CAP 

shares are subject to a restriction on sale or transfer after vesting, and vested 
deferred cash awards are subject to hold back (generally, for six months in 

each case).Unvested CAP and deferred cash awards made in January 2011 or later are subject to one or more clawback provisions that apply in certain 
circumstances, including in the case of employee risk-limit violations or 
other misconduct, or where the awards were based on earnings that were 
misstated. CAP awards made to certain employees in February 2013 and 
later, and deferred cash awards made to certain employees in January 2012, 
are subject to a formulaic performance-based vesting condition pursuant 
to which amounts otherwise scheduled to vest will be reduced based on the 
amount of any pretax loss in the participant™s business in the calendar year 

preceding the scheduled vesting date. For CAP awards made in February 2013 
and later, a minimum reduction of 20% applies for the first dollar of loss. 
In addition, deferred cash awards made to certain employees in February 2013 and later are subject to a discretionary performance-based 
vesting condition under which an amount otherwise scheduled to vest 
may be reduced in the event of a ﬁmaterial adverse outcomeﬂ for which a 
participant has ﬁsignificant responsibility.ﬂ Deferred cash awards made to 

these employees in February 2014 and later are subject to an additional 
clawback provision pursuant to which unvested awards may be canceled 
if the employee engaged in misconduct or exercised materially imprudent 
judgment, or failed to supervise or escalate the behavior of other employees 
who did.Certain CAP and other stock-based awards, including those to participants in the EU that are subject to certain discretionary clawback provisions, are 
subject to variable accounting, pursuant to which the associated value of the 
award fluctuates with changes in Citigroup™s common stock price until the 

date that the award is settled, either in cash or shares. For these awards, the 
total amount that will be recognized as expense cannot be determined in full 
until the settlement date.Stock awards and deferred cash awards may be made at various times during 

the year as sign-on awards to induce new hires to join Citi or to high-potential 

employees as long-term retention awards.Vesting periods and other terms and conditions pertaining to these awards 
tend to vary by grant. Generally, recipients must remain employed through 

the vesting dates to vest in the awards, except in cases of death, disability or 
involuntary termination other than for ﬁgross misconduct.ﬂ These awards 
do not usually provide for post-employment vesting by retirement-eligible 
participants.156A summary of the status of unvested stock awards granted as discretionary annual incentive or sign-on and long-term retention awards is 
presented below:Unvested stock awards
SharesWeighted-average 
grant date fair value 
per share
50,004,393$42.5217,815,45650.33(2,005,875)44.71Ÿ
(23,953,683)42.53
41,860,291$45.73

•š


Total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock 
awards, excluding the impact of forfeiture estimates, was $634 million at 
December 31, 2015. The cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-
average period of 1.5 years. However, the value of the portion of these 

awards that is subject to variable accounting will fluctuate with changes in 
Citigroup™s common stock price.
Certain executive officers were awarded a target number of performance 
share units (PSUs) on February 19, 2013, for performance in 2012, and to 
a broader group of executives on February 18, 2014 and February 18, 2015, 
for performance in 2013 and 2014, respectively. PSUs will be earned only 
to the extent that Citigroup attains specified performance goals relating to 
Citigroup™s return on assets and relative total shareholder return against 
peers over the three-year period beginning with the year of award. The actual 
dollar amounts ultimately earned could vary from zero, if performance 
goals are not met, to as much as 150% of target, if performance goals are 
meaningfully exceeded. The value of each PSU is equal to the value of one 
share of Citi common stock.PSUs were granted on February 16, 2016, for performance in 2015. The 2016 PSUs are earned over a three-year performance period based on 
Citigroup™s relative total shareholder return as compared to peers. The actual 

dollar amounts ultimately earned could vary from zero, if performance 
goals are not met, to as much as 150% of target, if performance goals are 
meaningfully exceeded. The value of each PSU is equal to the value of one 
share of Citi common stock. PSUs are subject to variable accounting, pursuant to which the associated value of the award will fluctuate with changes in Citigroup™s stock price and 

the attainment of the specified performance goals for each award, until the 
award is settled solely in cash after the end of the performance period. The 
value of the award, subject to the performance goals, is estimated using 
a simulation model that incorporates multiple valuation assumptions, 
including the probability of achieving the specified performance goals of 
each award. The risk-free rate used in the model is based on the applicable 
U.S. Treasury yield curve. Other significant assumptions for the awards are 

as follows:Valuation assumptions
201520142013


˚š˛˜Ž
A summary of the performance share unit activity for 2015 is presented below:Performance share units
UnitsWeighted- 
average grant  date fair  
value per unit

843,793$46.28513,46444.07ŠŠ
ŠŠ
1,357,257$45.45

ˆ˝˜š˜ˇ˘•š
Stock options have not been granted to Citi™s employees as part of the annual 
incentive award programs since 2009.All outstanding stock options are fully vested with the related expense recognized as a charge to income in prior periods. Generally, the stock 

options outstanding have a six-year term, with some stock options subject 
to various transfer restrictions. Cash received from employee stock option 
exercises under this program for the year ended December 31, 2015 was 
approximately $634 million.157Information with respect to stock option activity under Citigroup™s stock option programs follows:2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙OptionsWeighted- 
average exercise 
priceIntrinsic value 
per shareı


ı

Outstanding, beginning of period
26,514,119$48.00$6.11
ˆˆˆˆł
(7,901)40.80Š
łł
(1,646,581)40.85Š
˜˝˜š˝˙łł
(18,203,048)41.3913.03

Outstanding, end of period
6,656,588$67.92$Š
ˆˆˇš˛˛ˆˆ
Exercisable, end of period
6,656,588The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding under Citigroup™s stock option programs at December 31, 2015:Options outstandingOptions exercisable
Range of exercise prices
Number outstandingWeighted-average 
contractual life remainingWeighted-average 
exercise price
Number exercisable
Weighted-average 
exercise price
5,763,4241.0 year$48.165,763,424
$48.16
66,6605.4 years56.2566,660
56.25502,4163.0 years147.13502,416
147.13124,0882.1 years240.28124,088
240.28200,0002.1 years335.50200,000
335.50
6,656,5881.3 years$67.926,656,588
$67.92
Citigroup has various incentive plans globally that are used to motivate and reward performance primarily in the areas of sales, operational excellence 
and customer satisfaction. Participation in these plans is generally limited to 
employees who are not eligible for discretionary annual incentive awards.Except for awards subject to variable accounting, the total expense 
recognized for stock awards represents the grant date fair value of such 
awards, which is generally recognized as a charge to income ratably over the 
vesting period, other than for awards to retirement-eligible employees and 
immediately vested awards. Whenever awards are made or are expected to be 
made to retirement-eligible employees, the charge to income is accelerated 
based on when the applicable conditions to retirement eligibility were or will 
be met. If the employee is retirement eligible on the grant date, or the award 
is vested at grant date, the entire expense is recognized in the year prior 
to grant.Recipients of Citigroup stock awards generally do not have any stockholder rights until shares are delivered upon vesting or exercise, or after 
the expiration of applicable required holding periods. Recipients of restricted 
or deferred stock awards and stock unit awards, however, may be entitled to 

receive dividends or dividend-equivalent payments during the vesting period. Recipients of restricted stock awards generally are entitled to vote the shares 
in their award during the vesting period. Once a stock award vests, the shares 
are freely transferable, unless they are subject to a restriction on sale or 
transfer for a specified period.All equity awards granted since April 19, 2005, have been made pursuant to stockholder-approved stock incentive plans that are administered by the 

Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Citigroup Board of Directors, 
which is composed entirely of independent non-employee directors.At December 31, 2015, approximately 54.4 million shares of Citigroup common stock were authorized and available for grant under Citigroup™s 

2014 Stock Incentive Plan, the only plan from which equity awards are 
currently granted.The 2014 Stock Incentive Plan and predecessor plans permit the use of treasury stock or newly issued shares in connection with awards granted 
under the plans. Newly issued shares were distributed to settle the vesting 
of the majority of annual deferred stock awards in 2012 to 2015. Treasury 

shares were used to settle vestings in the first quarter of 2016. The use of 
treasury stock or newly issued shares to settle stock awards does not affect the 
compensation expense recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income for 
equity awards.158Incentive Compensation CostThe following table shows components of compensation expense, relating 
to certain of the above incentive compensation programs, recorded during 
2015, 2014 and 2013:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙


$541
ˆˆ



325˙˛˛˙˜˙

61


461
Š˛˛˚

773
Š˛
Total
$2,161
ˆ˜˘˙ˇ˚ˆ








Future Expenses Associated with Outstanding (Unvested) Awards
Citi expects to record compensation expense in future periods as a result of 
awards granted for performance in 2015 and prior years. Because the awards 
contain service or other conditions that will be satisfied in the future, the 
expense of these already-granted awards is recognized over those future 
period(s). Citi™s expected future expenses, excluding the impact of forfeitures, 
cancellations, clawbacks and repositioning-related accelerations that have 
not yet occurred, are summarized in the table below. The portion of these 
awards that is subject to variable accounting will cause the expense amount 
to fluctuate with changes in Citigroup™s common stock price.In millions of dollars˜˚˛ˇ

€†
Total 
(2)ﬁ

ˆˆ˜˚˛ˆˆ˛˜
$640

˛˜˛˝
385

ˆˆ˙˜˜ˆ˛˙˙ˆ˛ˇ
$1,025


˜˛˛˛ˇˇ˛˛˙
787Total
ˆˆˆˆ
$1,812


ICGš


159The Company has several non-contributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain U.S. employees and has various defined benefit pension and 
termination indemnity plans covering employees outside the U.S.The U.S. qualified defined benefit plan was frozen effective January 1, 2008 for most employees. Accordingly, no additional compensation-based 

contributions have been credited to the cash balance portion of the plan for 
existing plan participants after 2007. However, certain employees covered 

under the prior final pay plan formula continue to accrue benefits. The 
Company also offers postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to 
certain eligible U.S. retired employees, as well as to certain eligible employees 
outside the U.S.The Company also sponsors a number of non-contributory, nonqualified 
pension plans. These plans, which are unfunded, provide supplemental defined pension benefits to certain U.S. employees. With the exception 
of certain employees covered under the prior final pay plan formula, the 
benefits under these plans were frozen in prior years.The plan obligations, plan assets and periodic plan expense for the Company™s most significant pension and postretirement benefit plans 

(Significant Plans) are measured and disclosed quarterly, instead of 

annually. The Significant Plans captured approximately 90% of the 

Company™s global pension and postretirement plan obligations as of 

December 31, 2015. All other plans (All Other Plans) are measured annually 
with a December 31 measurement date.The following table summarizes the components of net (benefit) expense 
recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the Company™s 
pension and postretirement plans, for Significant Plans and All Other Plans, 
for the periods indicated.Pension plans
Postretirement benefit plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Qualified plans$4

$168
˜˛˚
$Š

$12
˝˙

553
317
33˙˙˙˙
108˛˜˚
(893)
(323)

(3)‘˛’‘˜’
(105)‘˛˜˛’‘˛˙˙’


(3)‘˙’‘˝’
2˛˝
Š‘˛’
(11)‘˛˜’
139˛˚˝
73
Š
43˙š
‘˛’14˜˛
Š˛˝˝
Š
(1)
‘˛’Š
44˛˙
Š
Š‘˛’

‘˛’Š
Šš
Š
Š
Net qualified plans (benefit) expense$(186)
‘˜˜š’
$281
˙˜˝˙˜˜
$30
˙˜˙˚
$46
˝˛˛˚˚
Nonqualified plans expense$43

$Š

$Š

$Š


‘˜’$Š
‘˜˙’
$Š

$Š

$Š
˙
Total net (benefit) expense
$(143)

$281
˙˜˝˙˜˜
$30
˙˜˙˚
$46
˝˛˛˚˙
‘˛’

‘˜’

The estimated net actuarial loss and prior service cost that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net expense 
in 2016 are approximately $226 million and $1 million, respectively, for 
defined benefit pension plans. For postretirement plans, the estimated 
2016 net actuarial loss and prior service cost (benefit) amortizations are 
approximately $35 million and $(11) million, respectively.160The Company™s funding practice for U.S. and non-U.S. pension and postretirement plans is generally to fund to minimum funding requirements 
in accordance with applicable local laws and regulations. The Company 
may increase its contributions above the minimum required contribution, if 
appropriate. In addition, management has the ability to change its funding 
practices. For the U.S. pension plans, there were no required minimum cash 
contributions for 2015 or 2014.The following table summarizes the actual Company contributions for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, as well as estimated expected 
Company contributions for 2016. Expected contributions are subject to 
change since contribution decisions are affected by various factors, such as 
market performance and regulatory requirements.Pension plans
 (1)Postretirement benefit plans
 (1)U.S. plans
 (2)Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plansNon-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝
2015˜˚˛˝
2015˜˚˛˝
2015˜˚˛˝Contributions made by the Company

$Š
˛˚˚
$92
˛˙˚
$174
˙
$4

Benefits paid directly by the Company
52
42˛˚˚
61
5‘˛’


The following tables summarize the funded status and amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the Company™s pension and 
postretirement plans.Pension plans
Postretirement benefit plans
U.S. plansNon-U.S. plansU.S. plansNon-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝Change in projected benefit obligationQualified plans

$14,060

$7,252

$917

$1,527
˛‹˝˛˛
4168Š12
55331733˙˙108˛˜˚Š6˜ŠŠ‘˛˝’‘˛’(649)(28)(55)(88)
(751)(294)(90)‘š˛’(57)‘š˙’ŠŠ12˛˛ŠŠ(147)ŠŠ‘˛’‘˜’Š(61)ŠŠ‘˜’14(8)ŠŠ‘˙’
‘˜’ŠŠšŠŠŠ(671)Š(211)Qualified plans$13,231

$6,534

$817

$1,291

Nonqualified plans712ŠŠŠProjected benefit obligation at year end$13,943

$6,534

$817

$1,291

‘˛’
‰
‘˜’

161Pension plans
Postretirement benefit plans
U.S. plansNon-U.S. plans
U.S. plansNon-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝Change in plan assetsQualified plans

$13,071

$7,057

$10
˙˜
$1,384

(183)š˝˛56(1)˜(5)
Š˛˚˚134˜˙˚2359˛˜Š549ŠŠ(131)‘˛˛’ŠŠŠ(61)ŠŠ
(751)(299)(127)‘˛˙˛’(57)‘š˙’Š(657)Š(198)Qualified plans$12,137

$6,104

$166
˛˚
$1,133

Nonqualified plansŠŠŠŠPlan assets at fair value at year end
$12,137

$6,104

$166
˛˚
$1,133

Funded status of the plans
Qualified plans (2)$(1,094)

$(430)

$(651)

$(158)
‘˛˝˙’
Nonqualified plans (1)(712)ŠŠŠFunded status of the plans at year end$(1,806)

$(430)

$(651)

$(158)
‘˛˝˙’
Net amount recognized
Qualified plans
$Š

$726
š˜˛
$Š

$115


(1,094)(1,156)(651)(273)‘˙˙š’Qualified plans$(1,094)

$(430)

$(651)

$(158)
‘˛˝˙’
Nonqualified plans(712)ŠŠŠNet amount recognized on the balance sheet$(1,806)

$(430)
’
$(651)

$(158)
‘˛˝˙’
Amounts recognized in Accumulated other  comprehensive income (loss)Qualified plans

$Š

$(1)
‘˛’
$Š

$Š


Š˙5˛˙Š125(6,107)(1,613)3(547)Qualified plans$(6,107)

$(1,609)

$3

$(422)

Nonqualified plans(266)ŠŠŠNet amount recognized in equity (pretax)$(6,373
)$(1,609)

$3

$(422)

Accumulated benefit obligation
Qualified plans$13,226

$6,049

$817

$1,291

Nonqualified plans706ŠŠŠAccumulated benefit obligation at year end$13,932

$6,049

$817

$1,291

‘˛’
‘˜’

162The following table shows the change in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
 related to Company™s pension and postretirement benefit plans 
(for Significant Plans and All Other Plans) for the years indicated.In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Beginning of year balance, net of tax 
(1)(2)$(5,159)


‘˙’Š‘˜˜’
‘˝’898‘˙‹˝˚˝’

(1,457)

236˜˚˜

(6)˛˙
57
291

24
Change, net of tax
$43

End of year balance, net of tax 
(1)(2)$(5,116)

‘˛’

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
‘˜’
‘˙’

‘˝’
›

At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the aggregate projected benefit obligation (PBO), the aggregate accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), and the aggregate fair value of plan assets are presented for all defined benefit 
pension plans with a PBO in excess of plan assets and for all defined benefit 
pension plans with an ABO in excess of plan assets as follows:PBO exceeds fair value of plan assetsABO exceeds fair value of plan assets
U.S. plans
 (1)Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
 (1)Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝
$13,943

$3,918

$13,943

$2,369


13,9323,48813,9322,047˜‹˜˙˙12,1372,76212,1371,243‘˛’

At December 31, 2015 and 2014, combined ABO for the U.S. and non-U.S. qualified pension plans, were more than plan assets by $1 billion and 
$0.6 billion, respectively. 
163The Company utilizes a number of assumptions to determine plan obligations and expenses. Changes in one or a combination of these 
assumptions will have an impact on the Company™s pension and 
postretirement PBO, funded status and (benefit) expense. Changes in the 
plans™ funded status resulting from changes in the PBO and fair value 
of plan assets will have a corresponding impact on Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).The actuarial assumptions at the respective years ended December 31 in the table below are used to measure the year-end PBO and the net periodic 

(benefit) expense for the subsequent year (period). Since Citi™s Significant 

Plans are measured on a quarterly basis, the year-end rates for those plans 

are used to calculate the net periodic (benefit) expense for the subsequent 
year™s first quarter. As a result of the quarterly measurement process, the 

net periodic (benefit) expense for the Significant Plans is calculated at 
each respective quarter end based on the preceding quarter-end rates (as 

shown below for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans). The actual 
assumptions for the non-U.S. pension and postretirement plans relate to the 
Significant Plans that are measured quarterly and All Other Plans that are 
measured annually.
Certain assumptions used in determining pension and postretirement benefit obligations and net benefit expense for the Company™s plans are 

shown in the following table:At year end2015˜˚˛˝Discount rate„›ƒ›
4.40%4.35˙›š˚4.20
0.25 to 42.00¡
4.76
2.00 to 13.20¡
7.90Future compensation increase rate
„›ƒ›
N/A—Ÿ€
1.00 to 40.00¡
3.24Expected return on assets
„›ƒ›
7.00
1.60 to 11.50¡
4.95
8.00 to 10.70¡
8.01During the year2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Discount rate„›ƒ›
4.00%/3.85 4.45%/4.35%/
%



3.90/3.70 
4.30/4.25/˙›š˚
3.80/3.65 
4.20/4.10 /

˝›˝˚Ÿ˝›˙˚
1.00 to 32.50
¡
4.74

2.25 to 12.00
¡
7.50
Future compensation increase rate„›ƒ›
N/A—Ÿ€—Ÿ€
1.00 to 30.00
¡
3.27˙›˝˚˙›š˙
Expected return on assets„›ƒ›
7.00

1.30 to 11.50
¡
5.08

8.50 to 10.40
¡
8.51
164Discount RateThe discount rates for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans were 
selected by reference to a Citigroup-specific analysis using each plan™s 
specific cash flows and compared with high-quality corporate bond indices 
for reasonableness. The discount rates for the non-U.S. pension and 
postretirement plans are selected by reference to high-quality corporate bond 
rates in countries that have developed corporate bond markets. However, 
where developed corporate bond markets do not exist, the discount rates are 
selected by reference to local government bond rates with a premium added 
to reflect the additional risk for corporate bonds in certain countries. Effective 
in 2015, Citi rounds the discount rate for all the Significant Plans to the 
nearest 5 basis points. Discount rates for All Other Plans are rounded to the 
nearest 10 basis points for plans in the six largest non-U.S. countries and to 
the nearest 25 basis points for the remaining non-US countries.Expected Rate of ReturnThe Company determines its assumptions for the expected rate of return 
on plan assets for its U.S. pension and postretirement plans using a 
ﬁbuilding blockﬂ approach, which focuses on ranges of anticipated rates 
of return for each asset class. A weighted average range of nominal rates 
is then determined based on target allocations to each asset class. Market 
performance over a number of earlier years is evaluated covering a wide 
range of economic conditions to determine whether there are sound reasons 
for projecting any past trends.The Company considers the expected rate of return to be a long-term assessment of return expectations and does not anticipate changing this 
assumption unless there are significant changes in investment strategy 
or economic conditions. This contrasts with the selection of the discount 
rate and certain other assumptions, which are reconsidered annually (or 
quarterly for the Significant Plans) in accordance with GAAP.
The expected rate of return for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans was 7.00% at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. The expected return on assets reflects the expected annual appreciation of the plan assets and reduces 
the Company™s annual pension expense. The expected return on assets is deducted from the sum of service cost, interest cost and other components of 
pension expense to arrive at the net pension (benefit) expense. Net pension 
(benefit) expense for the U.S. pension plans for 2015, 2014 and 2013 reflects 
deductions of $893 million, $878 million and $863 million of expected 
returns, respectively.
The following table shows the expected rates of return used in determining the Company™s pension expense compared to the actual rate of 

return on plan assets during 2015, 2014 and 2013 for the U.S. pension and 
postretirement plans:2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙

7.00%

‘˛’(1.70)
‘˛’
For the non-U.S. pension plans, pension expense for 2015 was reduced by the expected return of $323 million, compared with the actual return of $56 
million. Pension expense for 2014 and 2013 was reduced by expected returns 
of $384 million and $396 million, respectively.
Mortality TablesAt December 31, 2015, the Company maintained the Retirement Plan 2014 
(RP-2014) mortality table and adopted Mortality Projection 2015 (MP-2015) 
projection table for the U.S. plans.U.S. Plans
2015 (2)‘˙’Mortality (1)RP-2014/MP-2015Ž‡ł˜˚˛˝ŸŁ‡ł˜˚˛˝RP-2014/MP-2015Ž‡ł˜˚˛˝ŸŁ‡ł˜˚˛˝‘˛’


‘˜’


‘˙’

Adjustments were made to the RP-2014 tables and to the long-term rate of mortality improvement to reflect the Citigroup specific experience. As a result, 
the U.S. qualified and nonqualified pension and postretirement plans™ PBO 
at December 31, 2014 increased by $1,209 million and its funded status and 
AOCI decreased by $1,209 million ($737 million, net of tax). In addition, the 
2015 qualified and nonqualified pension and postretirement benefit expense 
increased by approximately $73 million.165Sensitivities of Certain Key AssumptionsThe following tables summarize the effect on pension expense of a one-
percentage-point change in the discount rate:One-percentage-point increaseIn millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
„›ƒ›
$26


(32)‘˙š’
One-percentage-point decrease
In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
„›ƒ›
$(44)


44
Since the U.S. qualified pension plan was frozen, the majority of the prospective service cost has been eliminated and the gain/loss amortization 
period was changed to the life expectancy for inactive participants. As a 
result, pension expense for the U.S. qualified pension plan is driven more 
by interest costs than service costs, and an increase in the discount rate 
would increase pension expense, while a decrease in the discount rate would 
decrease pension expense.The following tables summarize the effect on pension expense of a one-percentage-point change in the expected rates of return:One-percentage-point increaseIn millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
„›ƒ›
$(128)
‘˛˜š’‘˛˜˙’

(63)
One-percentage-point decreaseIn millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
„›ƒ›
$128
˛˜š˛˜˙

63
Health Care Cost Trend Rate
Assumed health care cost-trend rates were as follows:2015˜˚˛˝Health care cost increase rate for U.S. plans7.00%
5.00¢
‘˛’2020˜˚˜˚¡
2015˜˚˛˝Health care cost increase rate for Non-U.S. plans (weighted average)6.87%
6.86
2016Œ2029A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:One-percentage- point increaseOne- percentage- point decreaseIn millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝

$2
˜
$(2)
‘˛’


45˝˚(38)‘˙˝’One- percentage- point increaseOne- percentage- point decreaseIn millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝

$15

$(12)
‘˛˝’


156(128)166Citigroup™s pension and postretirement plans™ asset allocations for the U.S. plans and the target allocations by asset category based on asset fair values, 
are as follows:Target asset 
allocationU.S. pension assets 
at December 31,U.S. postretirement assets 
at December 31,Asset category 
(1)2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝19%19%46˝˝46˝˝
4˝4˝
˚£˛˚66˚£˜˜25˜˝25˜˝Total
100%100%‘˛’
‹‹
›
‘˜’

Third-party investment managers and advisers provide their services to Citigroup™s U.S. pension and postretirement plans. Assets are rebalanced as 

the Company™s Pension Plan Investment Committee deems appropriate. 

Citigroup™s investment strategy, with respect to its assets, is to maintain a 

globally diversified investment portfolio across several asset classes that, 
when combined with Citigroup™s contributions to the plans, will maintain the 

plans™ ability to meet all required benefit obligations.Citigroup™s pension and postretirement plans™ weighted-average asset 
allocations for the non-U.S. plans and the actual ranges and the weighted-
average target allocations by asset category based on asset fair values are 
as follows:Non-U.S. pension plans
Target asset 
allocationActual range at December 31,Weighted-average
 at December 31,Asset category 
(1)2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝0Œ68%16%˚£˛˚˚0Œ100˚£˛˚˚77
˚£˛š0Œ18˚£˜˛1˚£˛˚˚0Œ100˚£˛˚˚6Total
100%‘˛’
‹
Non-U.S. postretirement plans
Target asset 
allocationActual range at December 31,Weighted-average
 at December 31,Asset category
 (1)2015˜˚˛˝2015˜˚˛˝0Œ41%41%56Œ10056˚£˙0Œ3˚£˝3˝Total
100%‘˛’
‹
167For information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of Levels 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy and the valuation methodology 
utilized by the Company, see Note 1 and Note 25 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. ASU 2015-07 removes the current requirement to 
categorize investments for which fair value is measured using the NAV 
per share practical expedient within the fair value hierarchy.Certain investments may transfer between the fair value hierarchy classifications during the year due to changes in valuation methodology and 
pricing sources. There were no significant transfers of investments between 
Level 1 and Level 2 during 2015 and 2014.Plan assets by detailed asset categories and the fair value hierarchy are as follows:In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
 (1)Fair value measurement at December 31, 2015
Asset categoriesLevel 1Level 2Level 3Total
„›ƒ›
$694$Š$Š$694

816ŠŠ816
223ŠŠ223
„›ƒ›‰
1,172ŠŠ1,172
„›ƒ›
Š105Š105
„›ƒ›
Š1,681Š1,681

Š309Š309

Š440Š440

Š124Š124
Š42Š42

Š60Š60
ŠŠ2727

6521Š527
ŠŠ147147
Total investments
$2,911$3,282$174$6,367
$138$1,064$Š$1,202

(10)(515)Š(525)
Net investments at fair value
$3,039$3,831$174$7,044
¥
$18
¥
5,241Total net assets
$12,303
‘˛’
›
168In millions of dollars„›ƒ›
‘˛’
Asset categories‰
„›ƒ›




„›ƒ›‰

„›ƒ›
˛˛˙˛˛˙
„›ƒ›






˛˙˜˛˙˜
˝˛˝˛




˛˜

‰
˜˜˚
˛˛˛



˜˜˚
¥

¥
Total net assets

‘˛’
›
169In millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Fair value measurement at December 31, 2015
Asset categoriesLevel 1Level 2Level 3Total
„›ƒ›
$5$11$Š$16

7422247343
5ŠŠ
5„›ƒ›‰
Š1Š
1„›ƒ›
Š360Š360

2,886171Š3,057

876835775

Š31
4
22ŠŠ22
Š14142
1Š163164
Total investments
$3,080$1,452$257$4,789
$73$2$Š$75

Š(690)Š(690)
Net investments at fair value
$3,153$764$257$4,174
¥
$97
¥
2,966Total net assets
$7,237
170In millions of dollars

Asset categories‰
„›ƒ›
˛˙


˜˝˜˝
˛˚˛˚
„›ƒ›


˙‹˜˛˙˜˜˚˛˙‹˝˙˝

šš

˙˙

˛˛
˛˙˜˙˙

˛˛˛˛
˛˛
‰
˙‹˝˜˜
˛˛˜˜˛˛˝

‘˙’

š˛˝
¥
˛˛˝
¥
Total net assets

171The reconciliations of the beginning and ending balances during the year for Level 3 assets are as follows:In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categoriesBeginning Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2014 
(1)Realized gains (losses)Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, 
sales, and 
issuancesTransfers in 
and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2015
‘˝’

$27
‘˛’
‘š’‘˝’147Total investments
˜˜˚‘˛’‘˛˙’‘˙˜’

$174
‘˛’¥›
In millions of dollars„›ƒ›
Asset categories




‰


š˛
‘˛’‘˙˛’


‘˛’
‘˝’Total investments
˜˝˛‘˛’

˜˜˚
‘˛’¥›
In millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categoriesBeginning Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2014 
(1)Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, 
sales, and 
issuancesTransfers in 
and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2015

‘˛’

$47

˛‘˛’Š
‘˛’˛5
˛1˙˜˜˝˙41‘˜’˜‘˜’163Total investments
‘˜’
˜
$257
‘˛’¥›
In millions of dollars
Asset categories




‰



˝š‘˙’
˜


˛˛
˛‘˛’˙˜˙˜˜˚˜‰
‘˙’
˜

‘˛’¥›
172The Company™s global pension and postretirement funds™ investment strategy is to invest in a prudent manner for the exclusive purpose of providing 
benefits to participants. The investment strategies are targeted to produce 
a total return that, when combined with the Company™s contributions 
to the funds, will maintain the funds™ ability to meet all required benefit 
obligations. Risk is controlled through diversification of asset types and 
investments in domestic and international equities, fixed-income securities 
and cash and short-term investments. The target asset allocation in most 
locations outside the U.S. is primarily in equity and debt securities. These 
allocations may vary by geographic region and country depending on the 
nature of applicable obligations and various other regional considerations. 
The wide variation in the actual range of plan asset allocations for the 
funded non-U.S. plans is a result of differing local statutory requirements and 
economic conditions. For example, in certain countries local law requires 
that all pension plan assets must be invested in fixed-income investments, 
government funds, or local-country securities.The assets of the Company™s pension plans are diversified to limit the impact 
of any individual investment. The U.S. qualified pension plan is diversified 
across multiple asset classes, with publicly traded fixed income, hedge funds, 
publicly traded equity, and private equity representing the most significant 
asset allocations. Investments in these four asset classes are further diversified 
across funds, managers, strategies, vintages, sectors and geographies, 
depending on the specific characteristics of each asset class. The pension 
assets for the Company™s non-U.S. Significant Plans are primarily invested in 
publicly traded fixed income and publicly traded equity securities.The framework for the Company™s pension oversight process includes 
monitoring of retirement plans by plan fiduciaries and/or management 
at the global, regional or country level, as appropriate. Independent risk 
management contributes to the risk oversight and monitoring for the 
Company™s U.S. qualified pension plan and non-U.S. Significant Pension 
Plans. Although the specific components of the oversight process are tailored 
to the requirements of each region, country and plan, the following elements 
are common to the Company™s monitoring and risk management process: periodic asset/liability management studies and strategic asset allocation reviews; periodic monitoring of funding levels and funding ratios; periodic monitoring of compliance with asset allocation guidelines; periodic monitoring of asset class and/or investment manager 
performance against benchmarks; and periodic risk capital analysis and stress testing.173The Company expects to pay the following estimated benefit payments in future years:Pension plansPostretirement benefit plans
In millions of dollarsU.S. plansNon-U.S. plansU.S. plansNon-U.S. plans
š˚˙



˜˚˛š
˜˚˜˚
˙˚˙
In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Act of 2003) was enacted. The Act of 2003 
established a prescription drug benefit under Medicare known as ﬁMedicare 
Part D,ﬂ and a federal subsidy to sponsors of U.S. retiree health care benefit 
plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare 
Part D. The benefits provided to certain participants are at least actuarially 
equivalent to Medicare Part D and, accordingly, the Company is entitled to 
a subsidy.The subsidy reduced the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) by approximately $5 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 and 
the postretirement expense by approximately $0.2 million for 2015 and 2014.The following table shows the estimated future benefit payments for the Medicare Part D of the U.S. postretirement plan.In millions of dollarsExpected U.S. 
postretirement benefit paymentsBefore Medicare Part D subsidy
Medicare Part D subsidy
After Medicare
 Part D subsidy



˜˚˛š˜˚˜˚˙˚˙˜˙˚˛Certain provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 improved the Medicare Part D option known as the Employer Group 
Waiver Plan (EGWP) with respect to the Medicare Part D subsidy. The 

EGWP provides prescription drug benefits that are more cost effective for 
Medicare-eligible participants and large employers. Effective April 1, 2013, 
the Company began sponsoring and implementing an EGWP for eligible 
retirees. The Company subsidy received under the EGWP for 2015 and 2014 
was $11.6 million and $11.0 million, respectively.
The other provisions of the Act of 2010 are not expected to have a significant impact on Citigroup™s pension and postretirement plans.
The Company sponsors U.S. postemployment plans that provide income 
continuation and health and welfare benefits to certain eligible U.S. 
employees on long-term disability.As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the plans™ funded status recognized in the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet was $(183) million and 

$(256) million, respectively. The amounts recognized in 
Accumulated 

other comprehensive income (loss)
 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 
$45 million and $24 million, respectively. Effective January 1, 2014, the 

Company made changes to its postemployment plans that limit the period 
for which future disabled employees are eligible for continued Company 
subsidized medical benefits.The following table summarizes the components of net expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the Company™s U.S. 

postemployment plans.Net expense
In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Service related expense

$Š
˜˚
4˛˚

(31)‘˙˛’‘˙’
12˛˝
Total service related expense
$(15)
‘˛˜’˝˝
Non-service related expense (benefit)
$3
‘˛˝’
Total net (benefit) expense
$(12)
˙˚
174The following table summarizes certain assumptions used in determining the postemployment benefit obligations and net benefit expenses for the Company™s U.S. postemployment plans.
2015˜˚˛˝Discount rate3.70%Health care cost increase rate7.00%
5.00¢
2020˜˚˜˚The Company sponsors defined contribution plans in the U.S. and in certain non-U.S. locations, all of which are administered in accordance with local 
laws. The most significant defined contribution plan sponsored by the 
Company is the Citi Retirement Savings Plan in the U.S. (formerly known as 
the Citigroup 401(k) Plan).Under the Citi Retirement Savings Plan, eligible U.S. employees received matching contributions of up to 6% of their eligible compensation for 2015 
and 2014, subject to statutory limits. Additionally, for eligible employees 

whose eligible compensation is $100,000 or less, a fixed contribution of up 
to 2% of eligible compensation is provided. All Company contributions are 
invested according to participants™ individual elections. The following table 
summarizes the Company contributions to the U.S. and non-U.S. plans.U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙

$380
˙š˝
Non U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙

$375
˝˚˜
175Details of the Company™s income tax provision are presented below:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Current$861

3,397

388‘˝˛
’Total current income taxes
$4,646

Deferred
$3,019

(4)

(221)
Total deferred income taxes
$2,794

Provision for income tax on  
continuing operations before non- controlling interests (1)$7,440



(29)˛˜‘˜˝˝’


(906)
(498)‘˛‹˙˚˚’
(35)

176
(24)
‘˜’Š
Income taxes before non-controlling interests$6,124

‘˛’



›
‘˜’

Tax Rate
The reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the Company™s 
effective income tax rate applicable to income from continuing operations 
(before non-controlling interests and the cumulative effect of accounting 
changes) for each of the periods indicated is as follows:2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Federal statutory rate
35.0%

1.7˙›˝

(4.6)‘˚›˙’‘˜›˙’
‘˛’(1.7)‘˜›˝’

‘˜’0.4˛›˜‘˚›˙’

0.3

Š
‰
(1.8)‘˙›˚’
‹
0.7‘˚›˛’
Effective income tax rate30.0%˙˛›˜
‘˛’
¢


¢


‘˜’
¢


¢

As set forth in the table above, Citi™s effective tax rate for 2015 was 30.0%. 
The decline in the effective tax rate from 2014 was primarily due to a lower 
level of non-deductible legal and related expenses in 2015.176Deferred Income TaxesDeferred income taxes at December 31 related to the following:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝Deferred tax assets$6,058


4,110
1,429
8,403
3,248
359‰
23,0531,356˜‹˚š˙3,176˜‹˙˙˝$51,192

¥
ŠDeferred tax assets after valuation allowance$51,192

Deferred tax liabilities

$(327)


(1,146)(850)
(1,020)
$(3,343)

’Net deferred tax assets$47,849

Unrecognized Tax BenefitsThe following is a rollforward of the Company™s unrecognized tax benefits.In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Total unrecognized tax benefits at January
 1$1,060
˙‹˛˚š

32

311

(61)

(45)

(22)‘˙˚’

(40)˜
Total unrecognized tax benefits at December
 31$1,235

The total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 that, if recognized, would affect Citi™s effective tax rate, 

are $0.9 billion, $0.8 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively. The remaining 

uncertain tax positions have offsetting amounts in other jurisdictions or are 
temporary differences, except for $0.4 billion at December 31, 2013, which 
was recognized in Retained earnings
 in 2014.Interest and penalties (not included in ﬁunrecognized tax benefitsﬂ above) are a component of the Provision for income taxes
.2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙In millions of dollarsPretaxNet of tax

‰
˛$269$169
˝š˜
‰
(29)(18)
‘˛’‘˛’
‰
˙˛‘˛’233146

‘˛’
›
As of December 31, 2015, Citi is under audit by the Internal Revenue Service and other major taxing jurisdictions around the world. It is thus 
reasonably possible that significant changes in the gross balance of 
unrecognized tax benefits may occur within the next 12 months, although 
Citi does not expect such audits to result in amounts that would cause a 
significant change to its effective tax rate, other than as discussed below.
 Citi expects to conclude its IRS audit for the 2012-2013 cycle within the next 12 months. The gross uncertain tax positions at December 31, 2015 
for the items that may be resolved are as much as $97 million. Because of 
the number and nature of the issues remaining to be resolved, the potential 
tax benefit to continuing operations could be anywhere in a range between 
$0 and $94 million. In addition, Citi may conclude certain state and local tax audits within the next 12 months. The gross uncertain tax positions at 
December 31, 2015 are as much as $222 million. In addition there is gross 
interest of as much as $16 million. The potential tax benefit to continuing 
operations could be anywhere between $0 and $155 million, including 
interest. Furthermore, Citi may conclude certain foreign audits within the 
next 12 months. The gross uncertain positions at December 31, 2015 are 
as much as $119 million. In addition there is gross interest of as much as 
$18 million. The potential tax benefit to continuing operations could be 
anywhere between $0 and $22 million, including interest. The potential 
tax benefit to discontinued operations could be anywhere between $0 and 
$76 million, including interest.177The following are the major tax jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate and the earliest tax year subject to examination:JurisdictionTax
 year˜˚˛˜˜˚˚š¢
˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˛
˜˚˛˚˜˚˚š˜˚˛˛Foreign EarningsForeign pretax earnings approximated $11.3 billion in 2015, $10.1 billion 
in 2014 and $13.1 billion in 2013. As a U.S. corporation, Citigroup and its 
U.S. subsidiaries are currently subject to U.S. taxation on all foreign pretax 
earnings earned by a foreign branch. Pretax earnings of a foreign subsidiary 
or affiliate are subject to U.S. taxation when effectively repatriated. The 
Company provides income taxes on the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. 
subsidiaries except to the extent that such earnings are indefinitely reinvested 
outside the United States. At December 31, 2015, $45.2 billion of accumulated undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries was indefinitely invested. At the existing 
U.S. federal income tax rate, additional taxes (net of U.S. foreign tax 
credits) of $12.7 billion would have to be provided if such earnings were 
remitted currently. The current year™s effect on the income tax expense 

from continuing operations is included in the ﬁForeign income tax rate 
differentialﬂ line in the reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the 
Company™s effective income tax rate in the table above.
Income taxes are not provided for the Company™s ﬁsavings bank base year 
bad debt reservesﬂ that arose before 1988, because under current U.S. tax 
rules, such taxes will become payable only to the extent such amounts are 
distributed in excess of limits prescribed by federal law. At December 31, 2015, 

the amount of the base year reserves totaled approximately $358 million 
(subject to a tax of $125 million).Deferred Tax Assets
As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, Citi had no valuation allowance on its 
DTAs. The following table summarizes Citi™s DTAs.In billions of dollarsJurisdiction/componentDTAs balance 
December 31, 2015
™‰
˙˛‹˜˚˛˝
U.S. federal 
(1)
‘˜’$3.4
˜›˙
‘˙’15.91.320.7˜˛›˛Total U.S. federal
$41.3

State and local¢
$2.4


0.3˚›˝1.2˜›˚Total state and local
$3.9
˙›š
Foreign

$0.2
˚›˜

0.42.0˜›˛Total foreign
$2.6

Total
$47.8
˝š›˙
‘˛’



‘˜’
‹




‹


‘˙’
‹

178The following table summarizes the amounts of tax carry-forwards and their expiration dates:In billions of dollarsYear
 of expiration
December 31, 
2015˜˚˛˝U.S. tax return foreign tax credit  
carry-forwards
$Š
˛›š
4.8˜˚˛š1.2˛›˜˜˚˜˚3.1˙›˛˜˚˜˛1.7˜˚˜˜3.4˙›˝‘˛’0.4˛›˚‘˛’1.3Total U.S. tax return foreign tax credit  
carry-forwards
$15.9

U.S. tax return general business credit  
carry-forwards
˜˚˙˚$Š
˚›˝
˜˚˙˛0.2˚›˙˜˚˙˜0.4˚›˝˜˚˙˙0.3˚›˙˜˚˙˝0.2˚›˜0.2Total U.S. tax return general business credit 
carry-forwards
$1.3

U.S. subsidiary separate federal NOL  
carry-forwards
$0.2
˚›˜
0.1˚›˛˜˚˙˚0.3˚›˙˜˚˙˛1.5˜˚˙˙1.7˛›š˜˚˙˝2.3˜›˙3.6Total U.S. subsidiary separate federal NOL 
carry-forwards 
(2)$9.7

New York State NOL carry-forwards
˜˚˙˝$14.6
˛˜›˙
Total New York State NOL carry-forwards 
(2)$14.6
˛˜›˙
New York City NOL carry-forwards

$Š

˜˚˙˛Š˚›˛˜˚˙˜Š˜˚˙˝13.3Total New York City NOL carry-forwards 
(2)$13.3
˝›˝
APB 23 subsidiary NOL carry-forwards

¥
$0.2
˚›˜
Total APB 23 subsidiary NOL carry-forwards$0.2
˚›˜
‘˛’


‘˜’While Citi™s net total DTAs decreased year-over-year, the time remaining 
for utilization has shortened, given the passage of time, particularly with respect to the foreign tax credit (FTC) component of the DTAs. Although 

realization is not assured, Citi believes that the realization of the recognized 
net DTAs of $47.8 billion at December 31, 2015 is more-likely-than-not based 

upon expectations as to future taxable income in the jurisdictions in which 
the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies (as defined in ASC 740, 

Income Taxes
) that would be implemented, if necessary, to prevent a carry-

forward from expiring.Citi has concluded that it has the necessary positive evidence to support the full realization of its DTAs. Specifically, Citi forecasts sufficient U.S. 

taxable income in the carry-forward periods, exclusive of ASC 740 tax 
planning strategies. Citi™s forecasted taxable income, which will continue to 

be subject to overall market and global economic conditions, incorporates 
geographic business forecasts and taxable income adjustments to those 
forecasts (e.g., U.S. tax-exempt income, loan loss reserves deductible for U.S. 
tax reporting in subsequent years), and actions intended to optimize its U.S. 
taxable earnings. In general, Citi would need to generate approximately 
$59 billion of U.S. taxable income during the FTC carry-forward periods to 
prevent this most time-sensitive component of Citi™s FTCs from expiring.
In addition to its forecasted U.S. taxable income, Citi has tax planning 
strategies available to it under ASC 740 that would be implemented, if 

necessary, to prevent a carry-forward from expiring. These strategies include: 

(i) repatriating low-taxed foreign source earnings for which an assertion 

that the earnings have been indefinitely reinvested has not been made; 

(ii) accelerating U.S. taxable income into, or deferring U.S. tax deductions out 

of, the latter years of the carry-forward period (e.g., selling appreciated assets, 

electing straight-line depreciation); (iii) accelerating deductible temporary 

differences outside the U.S.; and (iv) selling certain assets that produce tax-
exempt income, while purchasing assets that produce fully taxable income. In 

addition, the sale or restructuring of certain businesses can produce significant 

U.S. taxable income within the relevant carry-forward periods. Based upon the foregoing discussion, Citi believes the U.S. federal and New York state and city NOL carry-forward period of 20 years provides 

enough time to fully utilize the DTAs pertaining to the existing NOL carry-

forwards and any NOL that would be created by the reversal of the future net 
deductions that have not yet been taken on a tax return. With respect to the FTCs component of the DTAs, the carry-forward period 
is 10 years. Utilization of FTCs in any year is restricted to 35% of foreign 
source taxable income in that year. However, overall domestic losses that 

Citi has incurred of approximately $54 billion as of December 31, 2015 
are allowed to be reclassified as foreign source income to the extent of 50% 
of domestic source income produced in subsequent years. Such resulting 
foreign source income would cover the FTCs being carried forward. As 
noted in the table above, Citi™s FTC carry-forwards were $15.9 billion as of 

December 31, 2015, compared to $17.6 billion as of December 31, 2014. This 
decrease represented $1.7 billion of the $1.5 billion decrease in Citi™s overall 

DTAs during 2015, partially offset by an increase in AOCI related DTAs. Citi 

believes that it will generate sufficient U.S. taxable income within the 10-year 
carry-forward period to be able to fully utilize the FTCs, in addition to any 
FTCs produced in the tax return for such period, which must be used prior to 
any carry-forward utilization.179The following is a reconciliation of the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) computations:In millions, except per-share amounts
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙Income from continuing operations before attribution of noncontrolling interests$17,386
ˆˆ

90˜˜ˇNet income from continuing operations (for EPS purposes)$17,296
ˆˇ˘˙˛˜ˆ

(54)†˜“˜ˇ˚Citigroup's net income$17,242
ˆˇ˘˙˛˚ˆ

†˛“769Net income available to common shareholders
$16,473
ˆˆ


224˛˛˛Net income allocated to common shareholders for basic EPS$16,249
ˆˆ˛˙˘˜˚˜



Š˛˛Net income allocated to common shareholders for diluted EPS$16,249
ˆˆ˛˙˘˜˚˙
Weighted-average common shares outstanding applicable to basic EPS
3,004.0

†˙“†˜“3.60.1˚›˙Adjusted weighted-average common shares outstanding applicable to diluted EPS3,007.7˙˘˚˙ˇ›˚
Basic earnings per share (4)
$5.43
ˆ˜›˜˛ˆ

(0.02)‰Net income$5.41
ˆ˜›˜˛ˆ
Diluted earnings per share (4)
$5.42
ˆ˜›˜˚ˆ

(0.02)‰Net income$5.40
ˆ˜›˜˚ˆ˝›˙˝
†˛“

†˜“
‡˘
‡˘
†˙“ﬁ
ŁŁ
‡›


†˝“

180
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under 
agreements to resell, at their respective carrying values, consisted of the 
following:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝$25
ˆ‰

119,777
99,873Total
$219,675
ˆ
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, at their respective carrying values, consisted of 
the following:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝$189
ˆ˙˙˝

131,650˛˝ˇ˘˜˚˝
14,657Total
$146,496
ˆ
The resale and repurchase agreements represent collateralized financing transactions. The Company executes these transactions primarily through its 
broker-dealer subsidiaries to facilitate customer matched-book activity and 

to efficiently fund a portion of the Company™s trading inventory. Transactions 

executed by the Company™s bank subsidiaries primarily facilitate customer 

financing activity.
To maintain reliable funding under a wide range of market conditions, 
including under periods of stress, Citi manages these activities by taking 
into consideration the quality of the underlying collateral, and stipulating 
financing tenor. Citi manages the risks in its collateralized financing 

transactions by conducting daily stress tests to account for changes in 
capacity, tenors, haircut, collateral profile and client actions. Additionally, 

Citi maintains counterparty diversification by establishing concentration 
triggers and assessing counterparty reliability and stability under stress.It is the Company™s policy to take possession of the underlying collateral, 
monitor its market value relative to the amounts due under the agreements 
and, when necessary, require prompt transfer of additional collateral in 

order to maintain contractual margin protection. For resale and repurchase 
agreements, when necessary, the Company posts additional collateral in order 

to maintain contractual margin protection.Collateral typically consists of government and government-agency securities, corporate and municipal bonds, equities, and mortgage-backed 
and other asset-backed securities.The resale and repurchase agreements are generally documented under industry standard agreements that allow the prompt close-out of all 
transactions (including the liquidation of securities held) and the offsetting 
of obligations to return cash or securities by the non-defaulting party, 

following a payment default or other type of default under the relevant 
master agreement. Events of default generally include (i) failure to deliver 
cash or securities as required under the transaction, (ii) failure to provide 
or return cash or securities as used for margining purposes, (iii) breach 
of representation, (iv) cross-default to another transaction entered into 
among the parties, or, in some cases, their affiliates, and (v) a repudiation 

of obligations under the agreement. The counterparty that receives the 
securities in these transactions is generally unrestricted in its use of the 
securities, with the exception of transactions executed on a tri-party basis, 
where the collateral is maintained by a custodian and operational limitations 

may restrict its use of the securities.A substantial portion of the resale and repurchase agreements is recorded at fair value, as described in Notes 25 and 26 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. The remaining portion is carried at the amount of 
cash initially advanced or received, plus accrued interest, as specified in the 
respective agreements.The securities borrowing and lending agreements also represent collateralized financing transactions similar to the resale and repurchase 
agreements. Collateral typically consists of government and government-
agency securities and corporate debt and equity securities.Similar to the resale and repurchase agreements, securities borrowing and lending agreements are generally documented under industry standard 
agreements that allow the prompt close-out of all transactions (including 
the liquidation of securities held) and the offsetting of obligations to return 
cash or securities by the non-defaulting party, following a payment default 

or other default by the other party under the relevant master agreement. 
Events of default and rights to use securities under the securities borrowing 
and lending agreements are similar to the resale and repurchase agreements 
referenced above.A substantial portion of securities borrowing and lending agreements is recorded at the amount of cash advanced or received. The remaining portion 
is recorded at fair value as the Company elected the fair value option for 
certain securities borrowed and loaned portfolios, as described in Note 26 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. With respect to securities loaned, 
the Company receives cash collateral in an amount generally in excess 
of the market value of the securities loaned. The Company monitors the 
market value of securities borrowed and securities loaned on a daily basis 
and obtains or posts additional collateral in order to maintain contractual 
margin protection.The enforceability of offsetting rights incorporated in the master netting agreements for resale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing 
and lending agreements is evidenced to the extent that a supportive legal 
opinion has been obtained from counsel of recognized standing that 
provides the requisite level of certainty regarding the enforceability of these 181agreements, and that the exercise of rights by the non-defaulting party to terminate and close-out transactions on a net basis under these agreements 
will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law upon an event of default 
including bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding.
A legal opinion may not have been sought or obtained for certain jurisdictions where local law is silent or sufficiently ambiguous to determine 
the enforceability of offsetting rights or where adverse case law or conflicting 
regulation may cast doubt on the enforceability of such rights. In some 
jurisdictions and for some counterparty types, the insolvency law for a 
particular counterparty type may be nonexistent or unclear as overlapping 
regimes may exist. For example, this may be the case for certain sovereigns, 
municipalities, central banks and U.S. pension plans.The following tables present the gross and net resale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and lending agreements and the related 
offsetting amount permitted under ASC 210-20-45. The tables also include 
amounts related to financial instruments that are not permitted to be offset 
under ASC 210-20-45 but would be eligible for offsetting to the extent that 
an event of default occurred and a legal opinion supporting enforceability 
of the offsetting rights has been obtained. Remaining exposures continue 
to be secured by financial collateral, but the Company may not have sought 
or been able to obtain a legal opinion evidencing enforceability of the 
offsetting right.As of December 31, 2015
In millions of dollarsGross amounts of recognized assetsGross amounts offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (1)Net amounts of assets included on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet (2)Amounts not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet but eligible for offsetting upon counterparty default
 (3)Net amounts (4)
$176,167$56,390
$119,777
$92,039$27,738

99,873Š99,87316,61983,254
Total
$276,040$56,390
$219,650
$108,658$110,992
 In millions of dollarsGross amounts of recognized liabilitiesGross amounts offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (1)Net amounts of liabilities included 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (2)Amounts not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet but eligible for offsetting upon counterparty default
 (3)Net amounts (4)
$188,040$56,390
$131,650
$60,641$71,009

14,657Š14,6573,22611,431
Total
$202,697$56,390
$146,307
$63,867$82,440

In millions of dollars






ˆˆ
ˆ
ˆˆ

‰
Ł
ˆˆ
ˆ
ˆˆ
 In millions of dollars







ˆˆ
ˆ˛˝ˇ˘˜˚˝
ˆˆ

‰˜˚˘ˇ˛˚
Ł
ˆˆ
ˆ˛ˇ˙˘˛˚˝
ˆˆ
†˛“

†˜“

†˙“


†˝“

182The following table presents the gross amount of liabilities associated with repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements, by remaining contractual maturity as of December 31, 2015:In millions of dollarsOpen and overnightUp to 30 days31Œ90 days
Greater than 90 daysTotal

$89,732$54,336$21,541$22,431$188,040

9,0961,8232,3241,41414,657
Total
$98,828$56,159$23,865$23,845$202,697
The following table presents the gross amount of liabilities associated with repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements, by class of underlying 
collateral as of December 31, 2015:In millions of dollarsRepurchase agreementsSecurities lending agreementsTotal
Ł
$67,005$Š$67,005

403Š403
66,63378967,422

15,3551,08516,440
10,29712,48422,781

19,913Š19,913
4,572Š4,572
3,8622994,161
Total
$188,040$14,657$202,697
183The Company has receivables and payables for financial instruments sold 
to and purchased from brokers, dealers and customers, which arise in the 
ordinary course of business. The Company is exposed to risk of loss from the 
inability of brokers, dealers or customers to pay for purchases or to deliver the 
financial instruments sold, in which case the Company would have to sell or 
purchase the financial instruments at prevailing market prices. Credit risk 
is reduced to the extent that an exchange or clearing organization acts as a 
counterparty to the transaction and replaces the broker, dealer or customer 
in question.The Company seeks to protect itself from the risks associated with customer activities by requiring customers to maintain margin collateral in compliance 
with regulatory and internal guidelines. Margin levels are monitored daily, 

and customers deposit additional collateral as required. Where customers 
cannot meet collateral requirements, the Company may liquidate sufficient 
underlying financial instruments to bring the customer into compliance with 
the required margin level.Exposure to credit risk is impacted by market volatility, which may impair 
the ability of clients to satisfy their obligations to the Company. Credit limits 

are established and closely monitored for customers and for brokers and 
dealers engaged in forwards, futures and other transactions deemed to be 
credit sensitive.Brokerage receivables and Brokerage payables consisted of the following:December 31,In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝
$10,435
ˆ

17,248Total brokerage receivables
 (1)$27,683
ˆ

$35,653
ˆ

18,069Total brokerage payables
 (1)$53,722
ˆ



184Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities are carried at fair value, other than physical commodities accounted for at the lower of cost or 
fair value, and consist of the following:December 31,In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝Trading account assets

ﬂ›ƒ›
$24,767
ˆ
803˛˘˜ˇ˛543516
5232,855˝˘˙˝˙Ł
$30,007
ˆ
ﬂ›ƒ›Ł
ﬂ›ƒ›Ł‡
$15,791
ˆ

2,005ŁŁ
$17,796
ˆ˜˚˘˝ˇ˝

$2,696
ˆ˙˘˝˚˜
56,609
14,437
56,18456,4953,95611,776Total trading account assets
$249,956
ˆ
Trading account liabilities


$57,827
ˆ

57,592
†˙“2,093‰Total trading account liabilities
$117,512
ˆ
†˛“

‡¡





†˜“


†˙“



185The following table presents the Company™s investments by category:December 31,In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝
$299,136
ˆ˙˚˚˘˛˝˙

36,215
2,088
5,516Total investments
$342,955
ˆ˙˙˙˘˝˝˙
†˛“
†˜“

†˙“
›
The following table presents interest and dividend income on investments:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Ł
$6,414
ˆˆ

215ˇ˙˜
388˝˙ˇ
Total interest and dividends
$7,017
ˆˆ
The following table presents realized gains and losses on the sale of investments. The gross realized investment losses exclude losses from other-

than-temporary impairment (OTTI):In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
$1,124
ˆ˛˘˚˜˚ˆ
(442)
Net realized gains on sale of investments$682
ˆˆ
The Company has sold certain debt securities that were classified as HTM. These sales were in response to significant deterioration in the 
creditworthiness of the issuers or securities or because the Company has 
collected a substantial portion (at least 85%) of the principal outstanding 
at acquisition of the security. In addition, certain other securities were 

reclassified to AFS investments in response to significant credit deterioration. Because the Company generally intends to sell these reclassified securities, 
Citi recorded OTTI on the securities. The following table sets forth, for the 
periods indicated, the carrying value of HTM securities sold and reclassified 
to AFS, as well as the related gain (loss) or the OTTI losses recorded on 
these securities.In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙

$392
ˆˆ
10‰
⁄”ƒ
243
⁄”ƒ
(15)
186The amortized cost and fair value of AFS securities at December 31 were as follows:2015˜˚˛˝In millions of dollarsAmortized costGross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Fair 
value
Debt securities AFS
ﬂ›ƒ›
$39,584$367$237$39,714
ˆˆˆˆ
2ŠŠ2
˛˜‰‰˛˜
505Š55
˝˙˛‰˝˝

5,90931115,929
ˇ
57324571
˙
Ł
$46,118$405$252$46,271
ˆˆˆˆ
ﬂ›ƒ›Ł
ﬂ›ƒ›Ł‡
$113,096$254$515$112,835
ˆˆˆ˛˜ˇˆ

10,095223710,080
˛˙
ŁŁ
$123,191$276$552$122,915
ˆ˛˜˙˘˝˛ˇˆ˝˛˙ˆ˛˝˚ˆ

$12,099$132$772$11,459
ˆˆˆˆ
92,38441059392,201
ˇ˙˝

15,85912117715,803
˛˜˘˚˙˙
9,2615929,174
˙˚
688ŠŠ688
‰‰
Ł⁄”ƒ
$299,600$1,349$2,438$298,511
ˆˆˆ˛˘ˇ˜˛ˆ
⁄”ƒ
$602$26$3$625
ˆˆˆ˝˝ˆ
Total securities AFS
$300,202$1,375$2,441$299,136
ˆˆˆˆ˙˚˚˘˛˝˙
†˛“
‡¡


†˜“
‡˘

˘


Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)


At December 31, 2015, the amortized cost of approximately 5,212 investments in equity and fixed income securities exceeded their fair 
value by $2,441 million. Of the $2,441 million, the gross unrealized losses 
on equity securities were $3 million. Of the remainder, $1,331 million 

represented unrealized losses on fixed income investments that have been 
in a gross-unrealized-loss position for less than a year and, of these, 94% 
were rated investment grade; and $1,107 million represented unrealized 
losses on fixed income investments that have been in a gross-unrealized-loss 
position for a year or more and, of these, 90% were rated investment grade. 
Of the $1,107 million mentioned above, $746 million represent state and 
municipal securities.At December 31, 2015, the AFS mortgage-backed securities portfolio fair value balance of $46,271 million consisted of $39,714 million of government-sponsored agency securities, and $6,557 million of privately 
sponsored securities, substantially all of which were backed by non-U.S. 
residential mortgages.As discussed in more detail below, the Company conducts periodic reviews of all securities with unrealized losses to evaluate whether the impairment is 
other-than-temporary. Any credit-related impairment related to debt securities 

is recorded in earnings as OTTI. Non-credit-related impairment is recognized 
in AOCI if the Company does not plan to sell and is not likely to be required 
to sell the security. For other debt securities with OTTI, the entire impairment 

is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income.187The table below shows the fair value of AFS securities that have been in an unrealized loss position for less than 12 months or for 12 months or longer:Less than 12 months12 months or longer
Total
In millions of dollarsFair 
value
Gross unrealized lossesFair 
value
Gross unrealized lossesFair 
value
Gross unrealized lossesDecember 31, 2015
Securities AFS
ﬂ›ƒ›
$17,816$141$2,618$96$20,434$237
ŠŠ1Š1Š

2,2177825
43,04211
291355
1346
4Ł
$20,324$151$3,499$101$23,823$252
ﬂ›ƒ›Ł
ﬂ›ƒ›Ł‡
$59,384$505$1,204$10$60,588$515

6,71630196
76,91237
ŁŁ
$66,100$535$1,400$17$67,500$552

$635$26$4,450$746$5,085$772
35,4914294,64216440,133593

5,5861321,298456,884177
5,311582,247347,55892
27ŠŠŠ27Š
⁄”ƒ
13231Š133
3Total securities AFS
$133,606$1,334$17,537$1,107$151,143$2,441

Securities AFS
ﬂ›ƒ›
ˆˆ˙˚ˆˆˆˆ
‰˜‰ˇ‰

˙
˝
ˇ˛˜˝˛
˜
˙Ł
ˆˆ˙˝ˆˆˆˆ
ﬂ›ƒ›Ł
ﬂ›ƒ›Ł‡
ˆˆˆ˛˘˚˛˙ˆˆˆ˛˜ˇ


˝˛˙
ŁŁ
ˆˆˆˆ˛˜ˆˆ˛˝˚

ˆˆˆˆˆˆ
˛˝ˇ


˙˘ˇ˚˛˛˙
⁄”ƒ
˝˝˚˝˝
Total securities AFS
ˆˆ˝˚˝ˆˆˆˆ
188The following table presents the amortized cost and fair value of AFS debt securities by contractual maturity dates:December 31,2015˜˚˛˝In millions of dollarsAmortized costFair 
value
Mortgage-backed securities (1)$114$114
ˆ˝˝ˆ˝˝
1,4081,411
1,7501,751

†˜“42,84642,995

Total
$46,118$46,271
ˆˆ
U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
$3,016$3,014
ˆ˛˙˘˚ˇ˚ˆ
107,034106,878

12,78612,684

†˜“355339
Total
$123,191$122,915
ˆ˛˜˙˘˝˛ˇˆ
State and municipal
$3,289$3,287
ˆˆ
1,7811,781

502516†˜“6,5275,875
ˇ˘˛˙˚
Total
$12,099$11,459
ˆˆ
Foreign government

$26,322$26,329
ˆˆ
44,80144,756

18,93518,779

†˜“2,3262,337

Total
$92,384$92,201
ˆˆ
All other (3)$1,930$1,931
ˆˆ
12,74812,762
˛˚˘˝˝˜
7,8677,782

†˜“3,2633,190

Total
$25,808$25,665
ˆˆ
Total debt securities AFS
$299,600$298,511
ˆˆ
†˛“

†˜“


†˙“
189The carrying value and fair value of debt securities HTM were as follows:In millions of dollarsAmortized cost basis (1)Net unrealized gains (losses) recognized in AOCICarrying 
value
 (2)Gross unrealized gainsGross unrealized (losses)Fair 
value
December 31, 2015
Debt securities held-to-maturity
†˙“ﬂ›ƒ›
$17,648
$138$17,786$71$(100)$17,757
121(78)43
3(1)45
433(1)432
259(162)529
2Š2
13Š15

1,330(60)1,270
37Š1,307
ŠŠŠ
ŠŠŠ
Ł
$19,534
$(1)$19,533$383$(263)$19,653

†˝“$8,581
$(438)$8,143$245$(87)$8,301
4,068Š4,068
28(3)4,093
†˙“4,485(14)4,471
34(41)4,464
Total debt securities held-to-maturity
$36,668
$(453)$36,215$690$(394)$36,511



†˙“ﬂ›ƒ›
ˆ
ˆˆˆˆˆ
†˛˜“
†˛“
†˜˛˙“

†˛“
‰˜˚

†˛˙ˇ“
‰
‰
˛‰
Ł
ˆ
ˆˆˆˆˆ˛˛˘˛ˇ˜

ˆ
ˆˆˆ˜˜ˇˆˆ
‰
ˇˇ‰
†˙“
†˛˚“
Total debt securities held-to-maturity 
(5)ˆ˜˝˘ˇ˚˛
ˆˆˆ˛˘˛˛˛ˆˆ
†˛“Trading account assets˘
›⁄”ƒ˘

†˜“





›
†˙“
‡¡


†˝“
⁄”ƒ›
‡˘

˘










‡¡





›

˘

190The Company has the positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity or, where applicable, the exercise of any issuer call options, absent 
any unforeseen significant changes in circumstances, including deterioration 
in credit or changes in regulatory capital requirements.The net unrealized losses classified in AOCI primarily relate to debt securities previously classified as AFS that have been transferred to HTM, and 
include any cumulative fair value hedge adjustments. The net unrealized loss amount also includes any non-credit-related changes in fair value of 
HTM securities that have suffered credit impairment recorded in earnings. 
The AOCI balance related to HTM securities is amortized over the remaining 
contractual life of the related securities as an adjustment of yield in a 
manner consistent with the accretion of any difference between the carrying 
value at the transfer date and par value of the same debt securities.The table below shows the fair value of debt securities HTM that have been in an unrecognized loss position for less than 12 months and for 12 months or longer:Less than 12 months12 months or longer
Total
In millions of dollarsFair 
value
Gross unrecognized  
lossesFair 
value
Gross unrecognized  
lossesFair 
value
Gross unrecognized  
lossesDecember 31, 2015
Debt securities held-to-maturity
$935
$1$10,301
$262$11,236
$263

881201,826
672,707
871803Š
Š180
3132133,232
283,364
41Total debt securities held-to-maturity
$2,128
$37$15,359
$357$17,487
$394



ˆ˝
ˆ‰ˆ˛˘˛˙˝
ˆˆ
ˆ

˙˝˙˛˝
˜˙
‰‰‰
‰‰
‰˛˛ˇ˝

˛˚Total debt securities held-to-maturity
ˆ
ˆˆ
ˆˆ
ˆ
Excluded from the gross unrecognized losses presented in the above table are $(453) million and $(780) million of net unrealized losses recorded in AOCI as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, primarily related to the difference between the amortized cost and carrying value of HTM securities that were reclassified from AFS. Substantially all of these net 
unrecognized losses relate to securities that have been in a loss position for 
12 months or longer at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014.191The following table presents the carrying value and fair value of HTM debt securities by contractual maturity dates:December 31,2015˜˚˛˝In millions of dollarsCarrying valueFair value

Mortgage-backed securities$Š$Š
ˆ‰ˆ‰
172172‰‰66066318,70118,818
˛˚˘˙˚˙
Total
$19,533$19,653
ˆˆ˛˛˘˛ˇ˜
State and municipal
$309$305
ˆˆ
336335˜˝˙˜˝˙262270˛˝˚˛˝˝7,2367,391

Total
$8,143$8,301
ˆˆ
Foreign government

$Š$Š
ˆ‰ˆ‰
4,0684,093
ŠŠ‰‰ŠŠ‰‰
Total
$4,068$4,093
ˆˆ
All other (2)$Š$Š
ˆ‰ˆ‰
ŠŠ‰‰ŠŠ‰‰4,4714,464

Total
$4,471$4,464
ˆˆ
Total debt securities held-to-maturity
$36,215$36,511
ˆˆ
†˛“


†˜“
192Overview
The Company conducts periodic reviews of all securities with unrealized 
losses to evaluate whether the impairment is other-than-temporary.An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses that are 
determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in AOCI for 
AFS securities. Losses related to HTM securities generally are not recorded, 
as these investments are carried at adjusted amortized cost basis. However, 

for HTM securities with credit-related losses, the credit loss is recognized in 
earnings as OTTI and any difference between the cost basis adjusted for the 
OTTI and fair value is recognized in AOCI and amortized as an adjustment 
of yield over the remaining contractual life of the security. For securities 

transferred to HTM from Trading account assets
, amortized cost is defined 
as the fair value of the securities at the date of transfer, plus any accretion 

income and less any impairment recognized in earnings subsequent to 
transfer. For securities transferred to HTM from AFS, amortized cost is 

defined as the original purchase cost, adjusted for the cumulative accretion 
or amortization of any purchase discount or premium, plus or minus any 
cumulative fair value hedge adjustments, net of accretion or amortization, 
and less any impairment recognized in earnings.Regardless of the classification of the securities as AFS or HTM, the Company assesses each position with an unrealized loss for OTTI. Factors 
considered in determining whether a loss is temporary include: the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost; the severity of the impairment; the cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; activity in the market of the issuer that may indicate adverse credit 
conditions; and the Company™s ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of 
time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.The Company™s review for impairment generally entails: identification and evaluation of impaired investments; analysis of individual investments that have fair values less than amortized cost, including consideration of the length of time the 
investment has been in an unrealized loss position and the expected 
recovery period; consideration of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors 
or triggers that could cause individual investments to qualify as having 
other-than-temporary impairment and those that would not support 
other-than-temporary impairment; and documentation of the results of these analyses, as required under 
business policies.Debt
The entire difference between amortized cost basis and fair value is 
recognized in earnings as OTTI for impaired debt securities that the 
Company has an intent to sell or for which the Company believes it will 
more-likely-than-not be required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized 
cost basis. However, for those securities that the Company does not intend to 
sell and is not likely to be required to sell, only the credit-related impairment 
is recognized in earnings and any non-credit-related impairment is recorded 
in AOCI.For debt securities, credit impairment exists where management does not expect to receive contractual principal and interest cash flows sufficient to 
recover the entire amortized cost basis of a security.
Equity
For equity securities, management considers the various factors described 
above, including its intent and ability to hold the equity security for a period 
of time sufficient for recovery to cost or whether it is more-likely-than-not 
that the Company will be required to sell the security prior to recovery of 
its cost basis. Where management lacks that intent or ability, the security™s 
decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and is recorded 
in earnings. AFS equity securities deemed to be other-than-temporarily 
impaired are written down to fair value, with the full difference between fair 
value and cost recognized in earnings.Management assesses equity method investments that have fair values that are less than their respective carrying values for OTTI. Fair value is 
measured as price multiplied by quantity if the investee has publicly listed 
securities. If the investee is not publicly listed, other methods are used (see 
Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).For impaired equity method investments that Citi plans to sell prior to recovery of value or would likely be required to sell, with no expectation that 
the fair value will recover prior to the expected sale date, the full impairment 
is recognized in earnings as OTTI regardless of severity and duration. The 
measurement of the OTTI does not include partial projected recoveries 
subsequent to the balance sheet date.For impaired equity method investments that management does not plan to sell and is not likely to be required to sell prior to recovery of value, the 
evaluation of whether an impairment is other-than-temporary is based on (i) whether and when an equity method investment will recover in value and (ii) whether the investor has the intent and ability to hold that investment for a period of time sufficient to recover the value. The determination of whether 
the impairment is considered other-than-temporary considers the following indicators, regardless of the time and extent of impairment: the cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events that may influence 
the operations of the issuer; the intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient 
to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value; and the length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the 
carrying value.193The sections below describe the Company™s process for identifying 
credit-related impairments for security types that have the most significant unrealized losses as of December 31, 2015.Mortgage-Backed Securities
For U.S. mortgage-backed securities (and in particular for Alt-A and other mortgage-backed securities that have significant unrealized losses as a 
percentage of amortized cost), credit impairment is assessed using a cash 
flow model that estimates the principal and interest cash flows on the 
underlying mortgages using the security-specific collateral and transaction 
structure. The model distributes the estimated cash flows to the various 
tranches of securities, considering the transaction structure and any 
subordination and credit enhancements that exist in that structure. The cash 
flow model incorporates actual cash flows on the mortgage-backed securities 
through the current period and then estimates the remaining cash flows 
using a number of assumptions, including default rates, prepayment rates, 
recovery rates (on foreclosed properties) and loss severity rates (on non-
agency mortgage-backed securities).Management develops specific assumptions using market data, internal estimates and estimates published by rating agencies and other third-party 
sources. Default rates are projected by considering current underlying 
mortgage loan performance, generally assuming the default of (i) 10% of current loans, (ii) 25% of 30Œ59 day delinquent loans, (iii) 70% of 60Œ90 day delinquent loans and (iv) 100% of 91+ day delinquent loans. These estimates are extrapolated along a default timing curve to estimate the 
total lifetime pool default rate. Other assumptions contemplate the actual 
collateral attributes, including geographic concentrations, rating actions and 
current market prices.Cash flow projections are developed using different stress test scenarios. Management evaluates the results of those stress tests (including the 
severity of any cash shortfall indicated and the likelihood of the stress 
scenarios actually occurring based on the underlying pool™s characteristics and performance) to assess whether management expects to recover the 
amortized cost basis of the security. If cash flow projections indicate that the 

Company does not expect to recover its amortized cost basis, the Company 
recognizes the estimated credit loss in earnings.State and Municipal SecuritiesThe process for identifying credit impairments in Citigroup™s AFS and HTM 
state and municipal bonds is primarily based on a credit analysis that 
incorporates third-party credit ratings. Citigroup monitors the bond issuers 
and any insurers providing default protection in the form of financial 
guarantee insurance. The average external credit rating, ignoring any 
insurance, is Aa3/AA-. In the event of an external rating downgrade or 
other indicator of credit impairment (i.e., based on instrument-specific 
estimates of cash flows or probability of issuer default), the subject bond is 
specifically reviewed for adverse changes in the amount or timing of expected 
contractual principal and interest payments.For state and municipal bonds with unrealized losses that Citigroup plans to sell (for AFS only), would be more-likely-than-not required to sell (for AFS 
only) or will be subject to an issuer call deemed probable of exercise prior to 
the expected recovery of its amortized cost basis (for AFS and HTM), the full 
impairment is recognized in earnings.194The total OTTI recognized in earnings are as follows:OTTI on Investments and Other Assets
Year ended December 31, 2015
In millions of dollarsAFS (1)HTMOther AssetsTotal


Ł
$33$1
$Š$34

ŠŠ
ŠŠ


$33$1
$Š$34


18243
6231
Total impairment losses recognized in earnings
$215$44
$6$265
†˛“
OTTI on Investments and Other Assets
£
In millions of dollars⁄”ƒ¢ŁžŁ


Ł
ˆ˜˛ˆ
ˆ‰ˆ

‰
‰

ˆ˛˙ˆ
ˆ‰ˆ


‰
Total impairment losses recognized in earnings
ˆˆ˙˛
ˆ‰ˆ˝˜˝
†˛“
OTTI on Investments and Other Assets
£
In millions of dollars⁄”ƒ¢ŁžŁ


Ł
ˆˆ
ˆ‰ˆ

‰
‰


ˆˆ
ˆ‰ˆ

‡
‰
˜˚˛˝ˇ˚
Total impairment losses recognized in earnings
ˆˆ
ˆ˜˚˛ˆ
†˛“
†˜“

Other revenue›195The following are 12-month rollforwards of the credit-related impairments recognized in earnings for AFS and HTM debt securities held that the Company does not intend to sell nor likely will be required to sell:Cumulative OTTI credit losses recognized in earnings on securities still held
In millions of dollars
Credit impairments  
recognized in  earnings on  securities not  previously impairedCredit impairments  
recognized in  earnings on  securities that have  been previously  impairedReductions due to credit-impaired  securities sold,  
transferred or  maturedDec. 31, 2015 
balanceAFS debt securities
ˆ
$Š
$(1)
$Š
$294

‰8ŠŠ8˛ˇ˛ŠŠ(1)170
2(2)(6)11222(1)Š170Total OTTI credit losses recognized for 
AFS debt securitiesˆˇ˙˙
$32
$(4)
$(7)
$754
HTM debt securities

†˛“ˆ
$1
$(1)
$(2)
$668

‰ŠŠŠŠ˛˙˙ŠŠ(1)132Total OTTI credit losses recognized for 
HTM debt securitiesˆ
$1
$(1)
$(3)
$800
†˛“

In millions of dollars










ˆ
ˆ‰
ˆ‰
ˆ‰
ˆ

‰‰‰‰‰˛ˇ˛‰‰‰˛ˇ˛
˛˛˙‰†˙“˛˝˝‰‰Ł
ˆˇ˜˙
ˆ˛˙
ˆ‰
ˆ†˙“
ˆˇ˙˙


†˛“ˆ
ˆ
ˆ‰
ˆ†˛˙“
ˆ

‰‰‰˛˙˙‰‰‰˛˙˙Ł
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ‰
ˆ
ˆ
†˛“
196The Company holds investments in certain alternative investment funds 
that calculate net asset value (NAV) per share, including hedge funds, 
private equity funds, funds of funds and real estate funds. The Company™s 
investments include co-investments in funds that are managed by the 
Company and investments in funds that are managed by third parties. 
Investments in funds are generally classified as non-marketable equity 
securities carried at fair value. The fair values of these investments are 
estimated using the NAV per share of the Company™s ownership interest in 
the funds, where it is not probable that the Company will sell an investment 
at a price other than the NAV.Fair valueUnfunded commitments
Redemption frequency (if currently eligible) monthly, quarterly, annuallyRedemption notice period
In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
2015
˜˚˛˝December 31, 
2015
˜˚˛˝$3
ˆ
$Š
ˆ‰
‡

†˛“†˜“762173ŠŠ
13021˜˝ŠŠTotal 
(4)$895
ˆ
$194
ˆ
ŠŠ†˛“
†˜“‡¡

›


†˙“

†˝“

˙˛˘˙˛˘‡›
197Citigroup loans are reported in two categoriesŠconsumer and corporate. These categories are classified primarily according to the segment and 
subsegment that manage the loans.Consumer loans represent loans and leases managed primarily by the GCB businesses in Citicorp and in Citi Holdings. The following table provides 
information by loan type for the periods indicated:December 31,In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝ˇ
$80,281


3,480112,8006,407$202,968



$47,062


29,48027,34221,679427$125,990

Total consumer loans
$328,958

$825

Consumer loans, net of unearned income$329,783

ˇ…ˇ—

Citigroup has established a risk management process to monitor, evaluate 
and manage the principal risks associated with its consumer loan portfolio. 
Credit quality indicators that are actively monitored include delinquency 
status, consumer credit scores (FICO), and loan to value (LTV) ratios, each 

as discussed in more detail below.
Included in the loan table above are lending products whose terms may give rise to greater credit issues. Credit cards with below-market introductory 
interest rates and interest-only loans are examples of such products. These 
products are closely managed using credit techniques that are intended to 
mitigate their higher inherent risk.During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company sold and/or reclassified to held-for-sale $25.8 billion and $10.3 billion, respectively, of consumer loans. The Company did not have significant 

purchases of consumer loans during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. Delinquency Status
Delinquency status is monitored and considered a key indicator of credit 
quality of consumer loans. Principally, the U.S. residential first mortgage loans use the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) method of reporting 
delinquencies, which considers a loan delinquent if a monthly payment has 
not been received by the end of the day immediately preceding the loan™s 
next due date. All other loans use a method of reporting delinquencies that 
considers a loan delinquent if a monthly payment has not been received by 
the close of business on the loan™s next due date.As a general policy, residential first mortgages, home equity loans and installment loans are classified as non-accrual when loan payments are 
90 days contractually past due. Credit cards and unsecured revolving loans 
generally accrue interest until payments are 180 days past due. Home equity 
loans in regulated bank entities are classified as non-accrual if the related 
residential first mortgage is 90 days or more past due. Mortgage loans in 
regulated bank entities discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other than Federal Housing Administration (FHA)-insured loans, are classified as 
non-accrual. Commercial market loans are placed on a cash (non-accrual) 
basis when it is determined, based on actual experience and a forward-
looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that the payment 
of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal is 90 days past due.The policy for re-aging modified U.S. consumer loans to current status varies by product. Generally, one of the conditions to qualify for these modifications is that a minimum number of payments (typically ranging 
from one to three) be made. Upon modification, the loan is re-aged to 
current status. However, re-aging practices for certain open-ended consumer 

loans, such as credit cards, are governed by Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines. For open-ended consumer loans 
subject to FFIEC guidelines, one of the conditions for a loan to be re-aged 
to current status is that at least three consecutive minimum monthly 
payments, or the equivalent amount, must be received. In addition, under 
FFIEC guidelines, the number of times that such a loan can be re-aged is 
subject to limitations (generally once in 12 months and twice in five years). Furthermore, FHA and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) loans are modified 
under those respective agencies™ guidelines and payments are not always 
required in order to re-age a modified loan to current.198The following tables provide details on Citigroup™s consumer loan delinquency and non-accrual loans:In millions of dollarsTotal 
current (1)(2)30-89 days past due (3) 90 days past due (3)Past
 due government 
guaranteed (4)Total 
loans (2)Total 
non-accrual90 days past due and accruing

$53,146$846$564$2,318$56,874$1,216
$1,997
22,335136277
Š22,7481,017
Š110,8141,2961,243
Š113,353
Š1,2434,2368033
Š4,349
5628,2411661
Š8,318
22217Total
$198,772$2,374$2,178$2,318$205,642$2,511
$3,259


$39,698$241$178$Š$40,117$390
$Š
25,810478442
Š26,730
26127829,067317192
Š29,576
226Š27,4016263
Š27,526
277ŠTotal
$121,976$1,098$875$Š$123,949$1,154
$278
Total GCB and Citi Holdings
$320,748$3,472$3,053$2,318$329,591$3,665
$3,537
Other (6)17877Š192
25ŠTotal Citigroup
$320,926$3,479$3,060$2,318$329,783$3,690
$3,537
ˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ

ˇˇˇˇ

ˇ
199In millions of dollarsTotal 
current (1)(2)30-89 days past due (3) 90 days past due (3)Past
 due government 
guaranteed (4)Total 
loans (2)Total 
non-accrual90 days past due and accruing




Ł
Ł
Ł
Ł˜’˝
Ł

Ł
Total




Ł
Ł

Ł

Ł
Ł
Ł
ŁTotal
Ł

Total GCB and Citi Holdings


Other (6)˛˚˛˛
Ł
ŁTotal Citigroup


ˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ

ˇˇˇˇ

ˇ
Consumer Credit Scores (FICO)In the U.S., independent credit agencies rate an individual™s risk for 
assuming debt based on the individual™s credit history and assign every 
consumer a ﬁFICOﬂ (Fair Isaac Corporation) credit score. These scores 
are continually updated by the agencies based upon an individual™s credit 
actions (e.g., taking out a loan or missed or late payments).The following tables provide details on the FICO scores attributable to Citi™s U.S. consumer loan portfolio as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 

(commercial market loans are not included in the table since they are 
business based and FICO scores are not a primary driver in their credit 
evaluation). FICO scores are updated monthly for substantially all of the 
portfolio or, otherwise, on a quarterly basis for the remaining portfolio.
FICO score distribution in U.S. portfolio 
(1)(2)December 31, 2015
In millions of dollarsLess than 620 620 but less than 660Equal to or
 greater than 660
$3,483$3,036$45,047
2,0671,78217,837
7,34110,07293,194
3372702,662
Total
$13,228$15,160$158,740
ˇ
…ˇ

ˇ

200FICO score distribution in U.S. portfolio 
(1)(2)ˇ˜˚˛˝
In millions of dollars




Total

ˇ


ˇ

Loan to Value (LTV) RatiosLTV ratios (loan balance divided by appraised value) are calculated at 
origination and updated by applying market price data.The following tables provide details on the LTV ratios attributable to Citi™s 
U.S. consumer mortgage portfolios. LTV ratios are updated monthly using the 

most recent Core Logic Home Price Index data available for substantially all 
of the portfolio applied at the Metropolitan Statistical Area level, if available, 
or the state level if not. The remainder of the portfolio is updated in a similar 
manner using the Federal Housing Finance Agency indices.LTV distribution in U.S. portfolio 
(1)(2)December 31, 2015
In millions of dollarsLess than or equal to 80%> 80% but less than or equal to 100%Greater than 100%
$46,559
$4,478$626
13,9045,1472,527
Total
$60,463
$9,625$3,153
ˇ


ˇ

LTV distribution in U.S. portfolio 
(1)(2)ˇ˜˚˛˝
In millions of dollars˛˚˚ı
˛˚˚ı


Total

ˇ


ˇ

Impaired loans are those loans where Citigroup believes it is probable all 
amounts due according to the original contractual terms of the loan will 
not be collected. Impaired consumer loans include non-accrual commercial 
market loans, as well as smaller-balance homogeneous loans whose terms 
have been modified due to the borrower™s financial difficulties and where 
Citigroup has granted a concession to the borrower. These modifications 
may include interest rate reductions and/or principal forgiveness. Impaired 
consumer loans exclude smaller-balance homogeneous loans that have not 
been modified and are carried on a non-accrual basis.201The following tables present information about total impaired consumer loans and for interest income recognized on impaired consumer loans:At and for the year ended December 31, 2015
In millions of dollarsRecorded investment (1)(2)Unpaid principal balanceRelated specific allowance (3)Average 
carrying value 
(4)Interest income recognized (5)

$6,038
$6,610$739
$8,932
$439
1,3991,972406
1,778641,9501,986604
2,079179464519202
44954352587113
37213Total
$10,203
$11,674$2,064
$13,610
$749
ˇ
ˇ

ˇAllowance for loan lossesˇ–

ˇˇ˜˚˛˝
In millions of dollars
–

ˇ








˛˜˝’’
˜˜Œ




ˇ
ˇ

ˇAllowance for loan lossesˇ–

ˇˇ
202The following tables present consumer TDRs occurring:At and for the year ended December 31, 2015
In millions of dollars except number of loans modifiedNumber of loans modifiedPost-modification 
recorded investment (1)(2)Deferred principal (3)Contingent principal forgiveness (4)Principal forgiveness (5)Average 
interest rate reductionNorth America
9,487$1,282$9
$4$25
1%4,3171571
Š32188,502771Š
ŠŠ164,28737Š
ŠŠ1330047Š
ŠŠŠTotal
 (8)206,893$2,294$10
$4$28
International
3,918$104$Š
$Š$Š
Š%142,851374Š
Š71365,895280Š
Š5523987Š
ŠŠ1Total
ˇ(8)212,903$845$Š
$Š$12
ˇ˜˚˛˝
In millions of dollars except 
number of loans modified


–
ˇNorth America


˛ı
Ł˛˝˜’˚’Ł
ŁŁŁ
ŁŁŁ
Ł˛ŁTotal
 (8)

International
˛˛˝Ł
Ł˛
˛ıŁ
ŁŁ
Ł˜˚˚Ł
ŁŁŁTotal
 (8)Ł
Ł
ˇ

ˇ
North America
ˇ
ˇ


ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ
North America
ˇ
ˇ

203The following table presents consumer TDRs that defaulted for which the payment default occurred within one year of a permanent modification. Default is defined as 60 days past due, except for classifiably managed commercial markets loans, where default is defined as 90 days past due.In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝North America
$420

3818789Total
$662

International
$22
˜˝
14188˛˚˝28Total
$279

204Corporate loans represent loans and leases managed by ICG. The following table presents information by corporate loan type:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
2015ˇ
˜˚˛˝
$41,147

36,396
37,565
33,3741,780$150,262


$78,420

28,704
5,106
20,853238
4,911$138,232

Total corporate loans
$288,494

(660)Corporate loans, net of unearned income$287,834

ˇ…ˇ—

The Company sold and/or reclassified to held-for-sale $2.8 billion and 
$4.8 billion of corporate loans during the years ended December 31, 2015 
and 2014, respectively. The Company did not have significant purchases 

of corporate loans classified as held-for-investment for the years ended 

December 31, 2015 or 2014.Delinquency StatusCiti generally does not manage corporate loans on a delinquency basis. 
Corporate loans are identified as impaired and placed on a cash (non-
accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual experience and a 
forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that the 
payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal 
is 90 days past due, except when the loan is well collateralized and in the 
process of collection. Any interest accrued on impaired corporate loans 
and leases is reversed at 90 days and charged against current earnings, 
and interest is thereafter included in earnings only to the extent actually 
received in cash. When there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability 
of principal, all cash receipts are thereafter applied to reduce the recorded 
investment in the loan. While corporate loans are generally managed based 
on their internally assigned risk rating (see further discussion below), the 
following tables present delinquency information by corporate loan type.205In millions of dollars30-89 days past due and accruing (1) 90 days past due and accruing (1)Total
 past due and accruingTotal non-accrual (2)Total 
current (3)Total 
loans (4)$87
$4
$91
$1,039$114,564$115,694
16Š1617364,12864,317

137714423242,09542,471
ŠŠŠ761,9412,017
29Š294458,28658,359

4,9715Total
$269
$11
$280
$1,564$281,014$287,834
In millions of dollars30-89 days past due and accruing (1) 90 days past due and accruing (1)Total
 past due and accruingTotal non-accrual (2)Total 
current (3)Total 
loans (4)
Ł


˜Ł˜

Ł
ŁŁŁ
˛

Total

˛
˛’’

ˇ
ˇ
ˇ

ˇ

ˇŒ

Citigroup has a risk management process to monitor, evaluate and 
manage the principal risks associated with its corporate loan portfolio. As part of its risk management process, Citi assigns numeric risk ratings to its 
corporate loan facilities based on quantitative and qualitative assessments 
of the obligor and facility. These risk ratings are reviewed at least annually 

or more often if material events related to the obligor or facility warrant. 
Factors considered in assigning the risk ratings include financial condition 
of the obligor, qualitative assessment of management and strategy, amount 

and sources of repayment, amount and type of collateral and guarantee 
arrangements, amount and type of any contingencies associated with the 
obligor, and the obligor™s industry and geography.
The obligor risk ratings are defined by ranges of default probabilities. The facility risk ratings are defined by ranges of loss norms, which are the product 
of the probability of default and the loss given default. The investment grade 
rating categories are similar to the category BBB-/Baa3 and above as defined 
by S&P and Moody™s. Loans classified according to the bank regulatory 

definitions as special mention, substandard and doubtful will have risk 
ratings within the non-investment grade categories.206Recorded investment in loans (1)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
2015ˇ
˜˚˛˝Investment grade (2)$81,927

53,522
18,8691,66051,449Total investment grade
$207,427

Non-investment grade (2)$32,726

10,622
2,8002826,8671,039173
2327644Total non-investment grade
$54,861

Private bank loans managed on a 
delinquency basis 
(2)$20,575

Loans at fair value
4,971Corporate loans, net of unearned income$287,834

ˇ

ˇ

Impaired collateral-dependent loans and leases, where repayment is expected to be provided solely by the sale of the underlying collateral and 
there are no other available and reliable sources of repayment, are written 
down to the lower of cost or collateral value, less cost to sell. Cash-basis loans 
are returned to an accrual status when all contractual principal and interest 
amounts are reasonably assured of repayment and there is a sustained period 
of repayment performance, generally six months, in accordance with the 
contractual terms of the loan.207The following tables present non-accrual loan information by corporate loan type and interest income recognized on non-accrual corporate loans:At and for the year ended December 31, 2015
In millions of dollarsRecorded investment (1)Unpaid principal balanceRelated specific allowanceAverage 
carrying value
 (2)Interest income  
recognized (3)
$1,039
$1,224
$246$825
$7
17319610194Š
23233621240476765462Š441143239ŠTotal non-accrual corporate loans
$1,564
$1,946
$363$1,360
$11
ˇ˜˚˛˝
In millions of dollars
–

ˇ





˝
˜˝’Ł˜˛Total non-accrual corporate loans




December 31, 2015
ˇ˜˚˛˝
In millions of dollarsRecorded investment (1)Related specific allowance

$539
$246
˜˜˝

1810
6021˜˝75544032˜˛Total non-accrual corporate loans with specific allowance
$732
$363



$500

155
172˛’˜1˝4ŁTotal non-accrual corporate loans without specific allowance
$832
N/A
•¡–ˇ

ˇ–

ˇ

208The following table presents corporate TDR activity at and for the year ended December 31, 2015:In millions of dollarsCarrying 
Value
TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of principal payments (1)TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of interest payments (2)TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of both principal and interest payments$120
$67
$Š
$53

473Š44Total
$167
$70
$Š
$97
ˇ



ˇ

The following table presents corporate TDR activity at and for the year ended December 31, 2014:In millions of dollars
Ž



˝’


˛

’˛˜Total


˛’

ˇ




ˇ

The following table presents total corporate loans modified in a TDR as well as those TDRs that defaulted and for which the payment default occurred within one year of a permanent modification. Default is defined as 60 days past due, except for classifiably managed commercial markets loans, where default is 
defined as 90 days past due.In millions of dollarsTDR balances at December 31, 2015
TDR loans  
in payment default  
during the year ended December 31, 2015

ˇ˜˚˛˝
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ˜˚˛˝
$135
$Š

Ł
51ŁŁ
138ŠŁ308ŠŁTotal 
(1)$586
$1

Ł
ˇ
209Included in the corporate and consumer loans outstanding tables above are purchased distressed loans, which are loans that have evidenced significant 
credit deterioration subsequent to origination but prior to acquisition by 
Citigroup. In accordance with ASC 310-30, the difference between the total 
expected cash flows for these loans and the initial recorded investment 
is recognized in income over the life of the loans using a level yield. 
Accordingly, these loans have been excluded from the impaired loan table 
information presented above. In addition, per ASC 310-30, subsequent 
decreases in the expected cash flows for a purchased distressed loan require a build of an allowance so the loan retains its level yield. However, increases in 
the expected cash flows are first recognized as a reduction of any previously 
established allowance and then recognized as income prospectively over the 
remaining life of the loan by increasing the loan™s level yield. Where the 
expected cash flows cannot be reliably estimated, the purchased distressed 
loan is accounted for under the cost recovery method. The carrying amount 
of the Company™s purchased distressed loan portfolio was $234 million 
and $361 million, net of an allowance of $16 million and $60 million, at 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.The changes in the accretable yield, related allowance and carrying amount net of accretable yield were as follows:In millions of dollarsAccretable yieldCarrying 
amount of loan receivableAllowance



˛
Ł

˜˝ŁŁ
ŁŁ
ˇ˜˚˛˝ˇ

˝˜˛

Ł

ŁŁŁ
˛ŁŁ
Balance at December 31, 2015 
(2)$33
$250$16
ˇ
…
ˇˇ

…
ˇ

…
210In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
Allowance for loan losses at beginning of period$15,994
ˆˆ
(9,041)
1,739
Net credit losses (NCLs)$(7,302)
ˆˆ
$7,302
ˆˆ

139

(333)
Total provision for loan losses
$7,108
ˆˆ
˘
(3,174)
Allowance for loan losses at end of period$12,626
ˆˆ
Allowance for credit losses on unfunded lending commitments at beginning of period$1,063
ˆ˛˘˜˜ˇˆ˛˘˛˛ˇ

74
˘
265˙˚
Allowance for credit losses on unfunded lending commitments at end of period (4)$1,402
ˆˆ˛˘˜˜ˇ
Total allowance for loans, leases, and unfunded lending commitments
$14,028
ˆˆ

“


…˘




EMEA…˘





˘


Other liabilities

211In millions of dollarsCorporateConsumerTotal

$2,389$13,605$15,994

(331)(8,710)(9,041)
971,6421,739

2347,0687,302

523(384)139

86(419)(333)
(288)(2,886)(3,174)
Ending balance$2,710$9,916$12,626


$2,345$7,839$10,184

3622,0642,426

31316
Total allowance for loan losses
$2,710$9,916$12,626


$281,066$319,301$600,367

1,79210,20311,995

5245250

4,971345,005
Total loans, net of unearned income
$287,834$329,783$617,617
In millions of dollars‚

ˆˆˆ


˛˙ˇ







Ending balanceˆˆˆ


ˆ˜˘˛˛˚ˆˆ



˝˝
Total allowance for loan losses
ˆˆˆ


ˆˆˆ



˝˜˛

˝˙
Total loans, net of unearned income
ˆˆˆ
In millions of dollars‚

ˆˆˆ




˜˚˛





Ending balanceˆˆˆ
212The changes in Goodwill were as follows:In millions of dollars
ˆ



ˆ

ˆ

ˆ

$(1,000)
(31)(212)Balance at December 31, 2015
$22,349
The changes in Goodwill by segment were as follows:In millions of dollarsGlobal Consumer BankingInstitutional Clients GroupCiti HoldingsTotal

ˆˆˆˆ


˜


ˆ˛˙˘˙ˇ˝ˆˆ˝˜ˆ

ˆˆŽˆˆŽ

(355)(644)
(1)(1,000)
ŠŠ(31)(31)
(24)(1)(187)(212)
Balance at December 31, 2015
$12,838$9,511$Š$22,349


˘


GCB
Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the level below each business segment (referred to as a reporting unit). The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test as of July 1, 2015 resulting in no impairment for 
any of the reporting units. The reporting unit structure in 2015 was the same 
as the reporting unit structure in 2014, except for the effect of the January 1, 
2015 reorganization noted below and the sales involving the Citi HoldingsŠ
Cards
, Latin America Retirement Services, and Citi HoldingsŠConsumer Japan reporting units during the third quarter of 2014 and second and 
fourth quarter of 2015, respectively.
Furthermore, interim goodwill impairment tests were performed during the year, which resulted in $31 million of total goodwill impairment recorded 

in Operating expenses, as discussed below. No goodwill was deemed impaired 
in 2014 and 2013. Effective January 1, 2015, certain consumer banking and institutional businesses were transferred to Citi Holdings and aggregated to form five 
new reporting units: Citi HoldingsŠConsumer EMEA, Citi HoldingsŠ
Consumer Latin America, Citi HoldingsŠConsumer Japan, Citi 
HoldingsŠConsumer Finance South Korea, and Citi HoldingsŠICG. 
Goodwill balances associated with the transfers were allocated to each of 
the component businesses based on their relative fair values to the legacy 
reporting units. An interim goodwill impairment test was performed as 
of January 1, 2015 under the legacy and new reporting structures, which 
resulted in full impairment of the new Citi HoldingsŠConsumer Finance South Korea reporting unit™s $16 million of goodwill. Additionally, during 
213the third quarter of 2015, Citi signed definitive agreements to sell most of its businesses reported in Citi HoldingsŠConsumer Latin America and 
allocated $55 million of goodwill to these disposals, which are classified as 
held-for-sale. This resulted in full impairment of the remaining $15 million 

of goodwill within the Citi HoldingsŠConsumer Latin America 
reporting unit.The fair values of the Company™s reporting units substantially exceeded 
their carrying values and did not indicate a risk of impairment based on 
current valuations. The following table shows reporting units with goodwill 
balances as of December 31, 2015 and the fair value as a percentage of 
allocated book value as of the annual impairment test.In millions of dollarsReporting Unit (1)(2)Fair value as a % of 
allocated book valueGoodwill
North America Global Consumer Banking
182%$6,706
EMEA Global Consumer Banking199293
Asia Global Consumer Banking2294,513
Latin America Global Consumer Banking
1461,326
Banking2373,052
Markets and Securities Services
1456,459
Total
$22,349
OtherICG

Consumer EMEA˘
Consumer Latin America
˘
Consumer Finance South Korea


The components of intangible assets were as follows:December 31, 2015

In millions of dollarsGross carrying 
amountAccumulated amortizationNet carrying 
amount




$7,606$6,520$1,086
ˆˆˆ˛˘˙˙˜

1,05096981
˛˘˚˜˛˛˙˜

471252219
˙˙˛
37316
˜˙˙

234Š234
˜ˇ˚Ž˜ˇ˚
4,7092,6142,095

Intangible assets (excluding MSRs)
$14,107$10,386$3,721
ˆˆˆ

1,781Š1,781
Ž
Total intangible assets
$15,888$10,386$5,502
ˆˆˆ



214Intangible assets amortization expense was $625 million, $756 million and $808 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Intangible assets 
amortization expense is estimated to be $528 million in 2016, $840 million 
in 2017, $348 million in 2018, $334 million in 2019 and $141 million 
in 2020.The changes in intangible assets during the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 were as follows:In millions of dollars


˜˚˛˝Acquisitions/ divestituresAmortizationImpairments
FX  
translation and otherNet carrying 
amount at December 31, 
2015
ˆ˛˘˙˙˜
$Š$(261)$Š$15$1,086

˛˙˜Š(41)Š(10)
81
Š(24)Š(5)219(68)(4)Š(1)6
˜ˇ˚ŠŠ(17)(39)
234(108)(295)
(5)18
2,095Intangible assets (excluding MSRs)
ˆ
$(176)$(625)$(22)$(22)$3,721

1,781Total intangible assets
ˆ
$5,502


2152015˜˚˛˝In millions of dollarsBalanceWeighted 
average couponž

Commercial paper
$9,9950.22%
ˆ
ŠŠ

Total commercial paper$9,9950.22%
ˆ
Other borrowings (2)11,0841.50

Total
$21,079
ˆ





˙˛˘

˙˛˘
Borrowings under bank lines of credit may be at interest rates based on LIBOR, CD rates, the prime rate or bids submitted by the banks. Citigroup 
pays commitment fees for its lines of credit.Some of Citigroup™s non-bank subsidiaries have credit facilities with 
Citigroup™s subsidiary depository institutions, including Citibank. Borrowings 

under these facilities are secured in accordance with Section 23A of the 
Federal Reserve Act.Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc. (CGMHI) has borrowing agreements consisting of facilities that CGMHI has been advised are 
available, but where no contractual lending obligation exists. These 
arrangements are reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure flexibility in 
meeting CGMHI™s short-term requirements.
Balances at December 31,In millions of dollarsWeighted 
average couponMaturities2015
˜˚˛˝Citigroup Inc. 
(1)
$113,569
ˆ˛˜˜˘˙˜˙


26,875‚
1,713Bank (3)
55,131Broker-dealer 
(4)
3,968

19˜˙Total
3.32%$201,275
ˆ
$172,668
ˆ

26,894‚
1,713Total
$201,275
ˆ
…
˘



˙˛˘˙˛˘˜˚˛˝˘

…—


…—
The Company issues both fixed and variable rate debt in a range of currencies. It uses derivative contracts, primarily interest rate swaps, to 
effectively convert a portion of its fixed-rate debt to variable-rate debt and 
variable-rate debt to fixed-rate debt. The maturity structure of the derivatives 
generally corresponds to the maturity structure of the debt being hedged. 
In addition, the Company uses other derivative contracts to manage 
the foreign exchange impact of certain debt issuances. At December 31, 2015, the Company™s overall weighted average interest rate for long-term debt was 3.32% on a contractual basis and 2.55% including the effects of 
derivative contracts.216Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt obligations (based on final maturity dates) including trust preferred securities are as follows:In millions of dollars20162017201820192020ThereafterTotal
ˆˆˆˇ˘˙˝˛ˆˆˆˆ

˜ˇ˝˛˚˙˛˘˛ˇ˙


Total
ˆˆˆˆˆˆˆ
The following table summarizes the Company™s outstanding trust preferred securities at December 31, 2015:Junior subordinated debentures owned by trustTrust
Issuance dateSecurities issuedLiquidation value
(1)Coupon rate (2)Common shares issued to parentAmountMaturity
Redeemable by issuer beginning In millions of dollars, except share amounts

ˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˜˚˚
˛˘

˛˘˚˚˚
˙˚˘
˙˚˘
ˇˇ˘ˇ˚˛

Total obligated
$2,588
$2,594




217Citigroup is subject to risk-based capital and leverage standards issued by the Federal Reserve Board. Citi™s U.S. insured depository institution subsidiaries, 
including Citibank, are subject to similar standards issued by their respective 
primary federal bank regulatory agencies. These standards are used to 
evaluate capital adequacy and include the required minimums shown in the 
following table. The regulatory agencies are required by law to take specific 
prompt actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum 
capital standards.The following table sets forth Citigroup™s and Citibank™s regulatory 
capital tiers, total risk-weighted assets, quarterly adjusted average total 
assets, Total Leverage Exposure, risk-based capital ratios and leverage 

ratios in accordance with current regulatory standards (reflecting Basel III 
Transition Arrangements):
CitigroupCitibankIn millions of dollars, except ratios
Stated minimumWell 
capitalized minimumDecember 31, 
2015Well 
capitalized minimum (1)December 31, 
2015‚
$173,862
$126,496
‚
176,420126,496‚‚
198,746148,916‚
1,190,853998,181
1,732,9331,297,733‚
2,326,0721,838,114‚
4.5%N/A
14.60%6.5%12.67%
‚
6.06.0%14.81
8.012.67‚
8.010.0
16.6910.014.92‚
4.0N/A
10.185.09.75
N/AN/A
7.58N/A6.88‚‚‚‚

…˘
‚
—

—
˙˛˘‚‚‚
˙˛˘‚‚‚




As indicated in the table above, Citigroup and Citibank were ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ under the current federal bank regulatory definitions as of 
December 31, 2015.There are various legal limitations on the ability of Citigroup™s subsidiary 
depository institutions to extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply 
funds to Citigroup and its non-bank subsidiaries. The approval of the Office 
of the Comptroller of the Currency is required if total dividends declared 
in any calendar year exceed amounts specified by the applicable agency™s 
regulations. State-chartered depository institutions are subject to dividend 
limitations imposed by applicable state law.In determining the dividends, each depository institution must also consider its effect on applicable risk-based capital and leverage ratio 
requirements, as well as policy statements of the federal regulatory agencies 
that indicate that banking organizations should generally pay dividends 
out of current operating earnings. Citigroup received $13.5 billion and 
$8.9 billion in dividends from Citibank during 2015 and 2014, respectively.
218Changes in each component of Citigroup™s Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):In millions of dollarsNet unrealized 
gains (losses) 
on investment 
securitiesCash flow 
hedges (1)Benefit plans (2)Foreign currency 
translation adjustment (CTA), net 
of hedges (3)(4)Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ







˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ





…

˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ







Balance at December 31, 2015
$(907)$(617)$(5,116)$(22,704)$(29,344)
˘
˘
–ƒ
˘
˘
ˇ
˘˘Ł˚ˇ
˘˘ˇ

˘˘
˘
˘˘
˘
˘
˘
˘˘219The pretax and after-tax changes in each component of 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:In millions of dollarsPretaxTax effectAfter-tax
˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ




˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ




˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ



Change
Balance, December 31, 2015
$(38,440)$9,096$(29,344)
220During 2015, 2014 and 2013 the Company recognized pretax losses of $155 million ($92 million net of tax), $542 million ($334 million gain net of tax) and $1,071 million ($649 million net of tax), respectively, related to amounts reclassified out of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into the Consolidated Statement of Income. See details in the table below:Increase (decrease) in AOCI due to amounts reclassified to Consolidated 
Statement of IncomeYear ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2015
$(682)


265

$(417)

Ž
148
Net realized (gains) losses on investment securities, after-tax 
(1)$(269)


$186

146

$332

Ž
(123)
Amortization of cash flow hedges, after-tax 
(2)$209



$(40)
…
276
57††
Š…
$293

Ž
(107)
Amortization of benefit plans, after-tax
 (3)$186


$(53)
…
Ž
19…
Foreign currency translation adjustment
$(34)
…
Total amounts reclassified out of AOCI, pretax
$155

Total tax effect
(63)
Total amounts reclassified out of AOCI, after-tax
$92

˘Realized gains (losses) on sales of investments, net and Gross impairment losses
˘

˘˘
˘˘
221The following table summarizes the Company™s preferred stock outstanding:Carrying value
 in millions of dollarsIssuance dateRedeemable by  
issuer beginningDividend rateRedemption price per  
depositary  
share/preference shareNumber of depositary  
sharesDecember 31, 
 2015˘
˘€€˘

$97

˘™˘

121˘€˘

1,500˘˜˘

750˘

575˘”˚

1,250˘Ł˘

950

1,495

480”˚

1,750

1,500

1,500…”˚

2,000…

1,250…

1,500…$16,718

˘
˘–˚–
˘˘”˚–
˘˘
˘˘
˘
˘–˚
˘˘

˘–˚–
˘˘
˘˘Ł’˛–
˘˘
˘
˘–˚–
˘–
˘

–˘–˚–
˘˘
˘˘Ł’˛–
˘˘
˘
˘–˚–
˘
˘˚
–
˘–˚–
˘˘”˚–
˘˘
˘˘
˘
˘–˚–
˘˘
˘˘Ł’˛–
˘˘
˘
˘–˚–
˘˘˚
–
˘–˚–
˘˘”˚–
˘˘
˘˘
˘
˘–˚
˘˘Ł’˝ˆ
˘˘
˘˘
˘–˚
˘
˘–˚˘”˚–
˘˘
˘˘–˚
˘
˘–˚˘”˚–
˘˘
˘˘
˘
–˚
˚–˚˘”˚˘
˘
–˚
˚–˚˘”˚˘
˘
–˚
–˚–˘

˘
–˚
˚˘”˚–˚˘”˚˘

˘
–˚
˚˘–˚˘”˚˘

˘
–˚
–˚˘”˚˘

On January 26, 2016, Citi issued $1 billion of Series S Preferred Stock as depositary shares, each representing 1/1000th interest in a share of 
corresponding series of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. The 
dividend rate is 6.3% payable quarterly on February 12, May 12, August 12 
and November 12, beginning May 12, 2016, in each case when, as and if 
declared by the Citi Board of Directors.During 2015, Citi distributed $769 million in dividends on its outstanding preferred stock. Based on its preferred stock outstanding as of 
December 31, 2015, Citi estimates it will distribute preferred dividends of 
approximately $1,027 million during 2016, in each case assuming such dividends are declared by the Citi Board of Directors.222A special purpose entity (SPE) is an entity designed to fulfill a specific limited need of the company that organized it. The principal uses of SPEs 
by Citi are to obtain liquidity and favorable capital treatment by securitizing 
certain financial assets, to assist clients in securitizing their financial assets 
and to create investment products for clients. SPEs may be organized in 
various legal forms, including trusts, partnerships or corporations. In a 
securitization, the company transferring assets to an SPE converts all (or a 
portion) of those assets into cash before they would have been realized in 
the normal course of business through the SPE™s issuance of debt and equity 
instruments, certificates, commercial paper or other notes of indebtedness. 
These issuances are recorded on the balance sheet of the SPE, which may 
or may not be consolidated onto the balance sheet of the company that 
organized the SPE.Investors usually have recourse only to the assets in the SPE, but may also benefit from other credit enhancements, such as a collateral account, 
a line of credit or a liquidity facility, such as a liquidity put option or asset 

purchase agreement. Because of these enhancements, the SPE issuances 
typically obtain a more favorable credit rating than the transferor could 
obtain for its own debt issuances. This results in less expensive financing 
costs than unsecured debt. The SPE may also enter into derivative contracts 
in order to convert the yield or currency of the underlying assets to match 
the needs of the SPE investors or to limit or change the credit risk of the SPE. 
Citigroup may be the provider of certain credit enhancements as well as the 
counterparty to any related derivative contracts.Most of Citigroup™s SPEs are variable interest entities (VIEs), as 
described below.
Variable Interest EntitiesVIEs are entities that have either a total equity investment that is insufficient 
to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated 
financial support, or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a 
controlling financial interest (i.e., ability to make significant decisions 
through voting rights and a right to receive the expected residual returns 
of the entity or an obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity). 
Investors that finance the VIE through debt or equity interests or other 
counterparties providing other forms of support, such as guarantees, 
subordinated fee arrangements or certain types of derivative contracts are 
variable interest holders in the entity.The variable interest holder, if any, that has a controlling financial interest 
in a VIE is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and must consolidate the 
VIE. Citigroup would be deemed to have a controlling financial interest and 
be the primary beneficiary if it has both of the following characteristics: power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the entity™s economic performance; and an obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be 
significant to the VIE, or a right to receive benefits from the entity that 
could potentially be significant to the VIE.The Company must evaluate each VIE to understand the purpose and design of the entity, the role the Company had in the entity™
s design and its involvement in the VIE™s ongoing activities. The Company then 
must evaluate which activities most significantly impact the economic 
performance of the VIE and who has the power to direct such activities.For those VIEs where the Company determines that it has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE™s economic 

performance, the Company must then evaluate its economic interests, if any, 

and determine whether it could absorb losses or receive benefits that could 
potentially be significant to the VIE. When evaluating whether the Company 
has an obligation to absorb losses that could potentially be significant, it 
considers the maximum exposure to such loss without consideration of 
probability. Such obligations could be in various forms, including, but not 

limited to, debt and equity investments, guarantees, liquidity agreements and 
certain derivative contracts.In various other transactions, the Company may: (i) act as a derivative counterparty (for example, interest rate swap, cross-currency swap, or 
purchaser of credit protection under a credit default swap or total return 
swap where the Company pays the total return on certain assets to the SPE); 
(ii) act as underwriter or placement agent; (iii) provide administrative, 
trustee or other services; or (iv) make a market in debt securities or other 
instruments issued by VIEs. The Company generally considers such 
involvement, by itself, not to be variable interests and thus not an indicator of 
power or potentially significant benefits or losses.See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of impending changes to targeted areas of consolidation guidance.223Citigroup™s involvement with consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs with which the Company holds significant variable interests or has continuing 
involvement through servicing a majority of the assets in a VIE is presented below:As of December 31, 2015
Maximum exposure to loss in significant unconsolidated VIEs 
(1)Funded exposures
 (2)Unfunded exposures
In millions of dollarsTotal 
involvement with SPE assetsConsolidated  VIE / SPE assetsSignificant unconsolidated VIE assets (3)Debt investmentsEquity investmentsFunding commitmentsGuarantees and derivativesTotal

$55,050$54,916$134$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š

ﬁ›ﬂ›˘˚
236,225Š236,2253,582Š
Š953,677

14,3051,58612,719528Š
Š1529
•˚
21,28021,280
ŠŠŠ
ŠŠŠ

20,564Š20,5643,154Š
Š863,240
83,3971,36482,03325,923270
3,89143630,520
8,5723,8304,742
2Š
3,100Š3,102
22,9354422,8912,2752,512
2,338Š7,125

1,9653351,630
49Š
ŠŠ49
27,56984226,727
13318
102Š433
4,9865974,389292554
Š52898
Total 
(6)$496,848$84,794$412,054$35,818$3,654$9,431$670$49,573


In millions of dollarsŽ
˘
¢“™˘⁄˘ﬂ—™˘˘

˚˝‘˘Ž

……………

ﬁ›ﬂ›˘˚
……
…

…
…
•˚

………
………

……
…



…
…

…


…
…


…


Ž

˘

˘
˘
˘

˘
˘˘ﬂˆˆ˘
˘
˘ﬂˆˆ˘
˘
˘–ˇ
224The previous tables do not include: certain venture capital investments made by some of the Company™s private equity subsidiaries, as the Company accounts for these investments 
in accordance with the Investment Company Audit Guide (codified in 
ASC 946); certain limited partnerships that are investment funds that qualify for 
the deferral from the requirements of ASC 810 where the Company is the 
general partner and the limited partners have the right to replace the 
general partner or liquidate the funds;  certain investment funds for which the Company provides investment 
management services and personal estate trusts for which the Company 
provides administrative, trustee and/or investment management services;  VIEs structured by third parties where the Company holds securities in 
inventory, as these investments are made on arm™s-length terms;  certain positions in mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities held 
by the Company, which are classified as Trading account assets or Investments, where the Company has no other involvement with 
the related securitization entity deemed to be significant (for more 
information on these positions, see Notes 13 and 14 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements);  certain representations and warranties exposures in legacy ICG-sponsored mortgage-backed and asset-backed securitizations, where the Company 
has no variable interest or continuing involvement as servicer. The 
outstanding balance of mortgage loans securitized during 2005 to 2008 
where the Company has no variable interest or continuing involvement 
as servicer was approximately $12 billion and $14 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively; certain representations and warranties exposures in Citigroup residential 
mortgage securitizations, where the original mortgage loan balances are 
no longer outstanding; and VIEs such as trust preferred securities trusts used in connection with the 
Company™s funding activities. The Company does not have a variable 
interest in these trusts.The asset balances for consolidated VIEs represent the carrying amounts of the assets consolidated by the Company. The carrying amount may 

represent the amortized cost or the current fair value of the assets depending 
on the legal form of the asset (e.g., security or loan) and the Company™s standard accounting policies for the asset type and line of business.The asset balances for unconsolidated VIEs where the Company has significant involvement represent the most current information available 
to the Company. In most cases, the asset balances represent an amortized 

cost basis without regard to impairments in fair value, unless fair value 
information is readily available to the Company. For VIEs that obtain 

asset exposures synthetically through derivative instruments, the tables 
generally include the full original notional amount of the derivative as an 
asset balance.The maximum funded exposure represents the balance sheet carrying amount of the Company™s investment in the VIE. It reflects the initial 

amount of cash invested in the VIE adjusted for any accrued interest and 
cash principal payments received. The carrying amount may also be 
adjusted for increases or declines in fair value or any impairment in value 
recognized in earnings. The maximum exposure of unfunded positions 
represents the remaining undrawn committed amount, including liquidity 
and credit facilities provided by the Company, or the notional amount 

of a derivative instrument considered to be a variable interest. In certain 
transactions, the Company has entered into derivative instruments or other 
arrangements that are not considered variable interests in the VIE (e.g., 
interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, or where the Company is the 
purchaser of credit protection under a credit default swap or total return 
swap where the Company pays the total return on certain assets to the SPE). 
Receivables under such arrangements are not included in the maximum 
exposure amounts.225Funding Commitments for Significant Unconsolidated VIEsŠLiquidity Facilities and Loan Commitments
The following table presents the notional amount of liquidity facilities and 
loan commitments that are classified as funding commitments in the VIE 
tables above:December 31, 2015

In millions of dollarsLiquidity facilities
Loan / equity commitments$5
$3,886


3,100Š…Š2,338…Š102…ŠŠ…Total funding commitments
$3,105
$6,326


Consolidated VIEs
The Company engages in on-balance sheet securitizations, which are 
securitizations that do not qualify for sales treatment; thus, the assets 
remain on the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet, and any proceeds 
received are recognized as secured liabilities. The consolidated VIEs included 
in the tables below represent hundreds of separate entities with which the 
Company is involved. In general, the third-party investors in the obligations 
of consolidated VIEs have legal recourse only to the assets of the respective 
VIEs and do not have such recourse to the Company, except where the 
Company has provided a guarantee to the investors or is the counterparty to certain derivative transactions involving the VIE. Thus, the Company™s 
maximum legal exposure to loss related to consolidated VIEs is significantly 
less than the carrying value of the consolidated VIE assets due to outstanding 
third-party financing. Intercompany assets and liabilities are excluded 
from the table. All VIE assets are restricted from being sold or pledged as 
collateral. The cash flows from these assets are the only source used to pay 
down the associated liabilities, which are non-recourse to the Company™s 
general assets.The following table presents the carrying amounts and classifications of consolidated assets that are collateral for consolidated VIE obligations:In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2015

$0.2

Ž
0.65.3Ž
78.60.1Total assets
$84.8

$14.0

31.3
2.1Total liabilities 
(1)$47.4

˘

˘˘
–›˘œš˚


˘

˘–›
Significant Interests in Unconsolidated VIEsŠBalance Sheet 
Classification
The following table presents the carrying amounts and classification of 
significant variable interests in unconsolidated VIEs:In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2015

$0.1
…
Ž
6.23.0Ž
28.41.8Total assets
$39.5

226Credit Card SecuritizationsThe Company securitizes credit card receivables through trusts established to 
purchase the receivables. Citigroup transfers receivables into the trusts on a 
non-recourse basis. Credit card securitizations are revolving securitizations; 
as customers pay their credit card balances, the cash proceeds are used to 
purchase new receivables and replenish the receivables in the trust.Substantially all of the Company™s credit card securitization activity is 
through two trustsŠCitibank Credit Card Master Trust (Master Trust) and 

the Citibank Omni Master Trust (Omni Trust), with the substantial majority 

through the Master Trust. These trusts are consolidated entities because, as 

servicer, Citigroup has the power to direct the activities that most significantly 
impact the economic performance of the trusts, Citigroup holds a seller™s 

interest and certain securities issued by the trusts, and also provides liquidity 
facilities to the trusts, which could result in potentially significant losses or 
benefits from the trusts. Accordingly, the transferred credit card receivables 

remain on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet with no gain or loss recognized. 

The debt issued by the trusts to third parties is included on Citi™s Consolidated 

Balance Sheet. The Company utilizes securitizations as one of the sources of funding for its business in North America. The following table reflects amounts related 
to the Company™s securitized credit card receivables:
In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2015

Ownership interests in principal amount of trust credit card receivables
$29.7


9.4
16.5Total
$55.6

The following tables summarize selected cash flow information related to Citigroup™s credit card securitizations:
In billions of dollars2015

$Š

—˚
(7.4)
Managed Loans
After securitization of credit card receivables, the Company continues to 
maintain credit card customer account relationships and provides servicing 
for receivables transferred to the trusts. As a result, the Company considers 
the securitized credit card receivables to be part of the business it manages. 
As Citigroup consolidates the credit card trusts, all managed securitized card 
receivables are on-balance sheet.Funding, Liquidity Facilities and Subordinated InterestsAs noted above, Citigroup securitizes credit card receivables through two 
securitization trustsŠMaster Trust, which is part of Citicorp, and Omni 
Trust, substantially all of which is also part of Citicorp. The liabilities of 
the trusts are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, excluding those 
retained by Citigroup.The Master Trust issues fixed- and floating-rate term notes. Some of 
the term notes are issued to multi-seller commercial paper conduits. The 
weighted average maturity of the term notes issued by the Master Trust was 
2.4 years as of December 31, 2015 and 2.8 years as of December 31, 2014.In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2015˘
Ž
$28.4

Ž
7.5Total Master Trust liabilities
$35.9

The Omni Trust issues fixed- and floating-rate term notes, some of which 
are purchased by multi-seller commercial paper conduits. The weighted 
average maturity of the third-party term notes issued by the Omni Trust was 

0.9 years as of December 31, 2015 and 1.9 years as of December 31, 2014.In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2015˘
Ž
$1.3

Ž
1.9Total Omni Trust liabilities
$3.2

227Mortgage SecuritizationsThe Company provides a wide range of mortgage loan products to a diverse 
customer base. Once originated, the Company often securitizes these loans 
through the use of VIEs. These VIEs are funded through the issuance of trust 
certificates backed solely by the transferred assets. These certificates have 
the same life as the transferred assets. In addition to providing a source of 
liquidity and less expensive funding, securitizing these assets also reduces 
the Company™s credit exposure to the borrowers. These mortgage loan 
securitizations are primarily non-recourse, thereby effectively transferring 
the risk of future credit losses to the purchasers of the securities issued 
by the trust. However, the Company™s U.S. consumer mortgage business 
generally retains the servicing rights and in certain instances retains 
investment securities, interest-only strips and residual interests in future 
cash flows from the trusts and also provides servicing for a limited number 
of ICG securitizations.The Company securitizes mortgage loans generally through either a government-sponsored agency, such as Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or Freddie 
Mac (U.S. agency-sponsored mortgages), or private-label (non-agency-
sponsored mortgages) securitization. The Company is not the primary 
beneficiary of its U.S. agency-sponsored mortgage securitizations because 
Citigroup does not have the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most 
significantly impact the entity™s economic performance. Therefore, Citi does 

not consolidate these U.S. agency-sponsored mortgage securitizations.The Company does not consolidate certain non-agency-sponsored mortgage securitizations because Citi is either not the servicer with the power 
to direct the significant activities of the entity or Citi is the servicer but the 
servicing relationship is deemed to be a fiduciary relationship; therefore, Citi 
is not deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the entity.
In certain instances, the Company has (i) the power to direct the activities and (ii) the obligation to either absorb losses or the right to receive 
benefits that could be potentially significant to its non-agency-sponsored 
mortgage securitizations and, therefore, is the primary beneficiary and thus 
consolidates the VIE.The following tables summarize selected cash flow information related to Citigroup mortgage securitizations:2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙
In billions of dollarsU.S. agency- 
sponsored mortgagesNon-agency- 
sponsored mortgages




$25.6$12.1


0.5Š
0.1Š

Agency and non-agency securitization gains for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $150 million and $44 million, respectively.
Agency and non-agency securitization gains for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were $267 million and $223 million, 
respectively.
Key assumptions used in measuring the fair value of retained interests at the date of sale or securitization of mortgage receivables were as follows:December 31, 2015
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
 (1)U.S. agency- 
sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interests
0.0% to 11.3%2.0% to 3.2%2.9% to 12.1%
—
8.0%2.9%
5.2%
5.7% to 34.9%Š2.8% to 8.0%
—
11.7%Š3.5%
NM40.0%38.1% to 92.0%
—
NM40.0%
70.6%—
3.5 to 10.4 years2.5 to 9.8 years8.9 to 12.9 years
228






—


—

ƒ‰
—
ƒ‰—






ƒ‰
The interests retained by the Company range from highly rated and/or senior in the capital structure to unrated and/or residual interests.The key assumptions used to value retained interests, and the sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 10% and 20% in each of the key assumptions, are set forth in the tables below. The negative effect of each 
change is calculated independently, holding all other assumptions constant. 

Because the key assumptions may not be independent, the net effect of 
simultaneous adverse changes in the key assumptions may be less than the 
sum of the individual effects shown below.
December 31, 2015
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
 (1)U.S. agency- 
sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interests
0.0% to 22.1%1.6% to 67.6%2.0% to 24.9%
—
5.7%7.6%8.4%
6.5% to 27.8%4.2% to 100.0%0.5% to 20.8%
—
12.5%14.0%7.5%
NM0.2% to 89.1%3.8% to 92.0%
—
NM48.9%54.4%—
1.3 to 21.0 years0.3 to 18.1 years0.9 to 19.0 years







—


—

ƒ‰
—
ƒ‰—








ƒ‰

229In millions of dollars at December 31, 2015
U.S. agency- 
sponsored mortgagesNon-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)Senior interestsSubordinated interestsCarrying value of retained interests
$2,563
$179
$553

$(65)
$(8)
$(25)
(127)(15)(49)
(102)(3)(9)(196)(6)(18)
NM(6)(7)NM(11)(14)In millions of dollars at December 31, 2014





˜–˙“˝
˙˛˚
€€˝






ƒ‰ƒ‰
˙˛–
˙˛–


ƒ‰

Mortgage Servicing RightsIn connection with the securitization of mortgage loans, the Company™s 
U.S. consumer mortgage business generally retains the servicing rights, 
which entitle the Company to a future stream of cash flows based on the 
outstanding principal balances of the loans and the contractual servicing 
fee. Failure to service the loans in accordance with contractual requirements 
may lead to a termination of the servicing rights and the loss of future 
servicing fees.These transactions create an intangible asset referred to as mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), which are recorded at fair value on Citi™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheet. The fair value of Citi™s capitalized MSRs 

was $1.8 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014. Of these amounts, approximately $1.7 billion was specific to Citicorp, with the remainder to 
Citi Holdings as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. The MSRs correspond to principal loan balances of $198 billion and $224 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The following table summarizes the changes in capitalized MSRs:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝Balance, beginning of year
$1,845
˜–“˛−

214˜˛“110(350)(38)Balance, as of December 31
$1,781
˛–−˝€

230The fair value of the MSRs is primarily affected by changes in prepayments of mortgages that result from shifts in mortgage interest rates. Specifically, higher interest rates tend to lead to declining prepayments, 

which causes the fair value of the MSRs to increase. In managing this risk, 
the Company economically hedges a significant portion of the value of its 
MSRs through the use of interest rate derivative contracts, forward purchase 
and sale commitments of mortgage-backed securities and purchased 
securities all classified as Trading account assets
. The Company receives fees 
during the course of servicing previously securitized mortgages. The amounts 
of these fees were as follows:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙

$552
†˙−−˚˚

16˜€˝˜

31€†˛˚˚
Total MSR fees
$599

These fees and changes in MSR fair values are classified in the Consolidated Statement of Income as Other revenue.Re-SecuritizationsThe Company engages in re-securitization transactions in which debt 
securities are transferred to a VIE in exchange for new beneficial interests. 
During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, Citi transferred non-agency (private-label) securities with an original par value of approximately 
$885 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, to re-securitization entities. These 
securities are backed by either residential or commercial mortgages and are 
often structured on behalf of clients. As of December 31, 2015, the fair value of Citi-retained interests in private-label re-securitization transactions structured by Citi totaled 
approximately $428 million (including $132 million related to re-
securitization transactions executed in 2015), which has been recorded 
in Trading account assets
. Of this amount, approximately $18 million was related to senior beneficial interests and approximately $410 million 
was related to subordinated beneficial interests. As of December 31, 2014, the fair value of Citi-retained interests in private-label re-securitization 
transactions structured by Citi totaled approximately $545 million (including 
$194 million related to re-securitization transactions executed in 2014). Of 
this amount, approximately $133 million was related to senior beneficial 
interests, and approximately $412 million was related to subordinated 
beneficial interests. The original par value of private-label re-securitization 
transactions in which Citi holds a retained interest as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $3.7 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively.The Company also re-securitizes U.S. government-agency guaranteed mortgage-backed (agency) securities. During the years ended December 31, 
2015 and 2014, Citi transferred agency securities with a fair value 
of approximately $17.8 billion and $22.5 billion, respectively, to 

re-securitization entities. As of December 31, 2015, the fair value of Citi-retained interests in agency re-securitization transactions structured by Citi totaled approximately 
$1.8 billion (including $1.5 billion related to re-securitization transactions 
executed in 2015) compared to $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2014 (including $1.5 billion related to re-securitization transactions executed in 
2014), which is recorded in Trading account assets
. The original fair value of agency re-securitization transactions in which Citi holds a retained interest 
as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $65.0 billion and $73.0 billion, respectively.As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company did not consolidate any private-label or agency re-securitization entities.Citi-Administered Asset-Backed Commercial Paper ConduitsThe Company is active in the asset-backed commercial paper conduit 
business as administrator of several multi-seller commercial paper conduits 
and also as a service provider to single-seller and other commercial paper 
conduits sponsored by third parties.Citi™s multi-seller commercial paper conduits are designed to provide the Company™s clients access to low-cost funding in the commercial paper 

markets. The conduits purchase assets from or provide financing facilities to 
clients and are funded by issuing commercial paper to third-party investors. 
The conduits generally do not purchase assets originated by the Company. 

The funding of the conduits is facilitated by the liquidity support and credit 
enhancements provided by the Company.
As administrator to Citi™s conduits, the Company is generally responsible 
for selecting and structuring assets purchased or financed by the conduits, 
making decisions regarding the funding of the conduits, including 
determining the tenor and other features of the commercial paper issued, 
monitoring the quality and performance of the conduits™ assets, and 
facilitating the operations and cash flows of the conduits. In return, the 
Company earns structuring fees from customers for individual transactions 
and earns an administration fee from the conduit, which is equal to the 
income from the client program and liquidity fees of the conduit after 
payment of conduit expenses. This administration fee is fairly stable, since 
most risks and rewards of the underlying assets are passed back to the clients. 
Once the asset pricing is negotiated, most ongoing income, costs and fees are 
relatively stable as a percentage of the conduit™s size.
The conduits administered by the Company do not generally invest in liquid securities that are formally rated by third parties. The assets are 
privately negotiated and structured transactions that are generally designed 
to be held by the conduit, rather than actively traded and sold. The yield 
earned by the conduit on each asset is generally tied to the rate on the 
commercial paper issued by the conduit, thus passing interest rate risk to the 
client. Each asset purchased by the conduit is structured with transaction-
specific credit enhancement features provided by the third-party client seller, 

including over collateralization, cash and excess spread collateral accounts, 
direct recourse or third-party guarantees. These credit enhancements are 
sized with the objective of approximating a credit rating of A or above, based 231on the Company™s internal risk ratings. At December
 31, 2015 and 2014, the conduits had approximately $21.3 billion and $29.2 billion of purchased assets outstanding, respectively, and had incremental funding commitments 
with clients of approximately $11.6 billion and $13.5 billion, respectively.Substantially all of the funding of the conduits is in the form of short-term commercial paper. At December
 31, 2015 and 2014, the weighted average remaining lives of the commercial paper issued by the conduits 
were approximately 56 and 57 days, respectively. The primary credit enhancement provided to the conduit investors is in the form of transaction-specific credit enhancements described above. 
In addition to the transaction-specific credit enhancements, the conduits, 
other than the government guaranteed loan conduit, have obtained a 
letter of credit from the Company, which is equal to at least 8% to 10% of 

the conduit™s assets with a minimum of $200 million. The letters of credit 

provided by the Company to the conduits total approximately $1.9 billion 
and $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The net result across multi-seller conduits administered by the Company, other than 

the government guaranteed loan conduit, is that, in the event defaulted 
assets exceed the transaction-specific credit enhancements described above, 
any losses in each conduit are allocated first to the Company and then the 
commercial paper investors.The Company also provides the conduits with two forms of liquidity agreements that are used to provide funding to the conduits in the event 
of a market disruption, among other events. Each asset of the conduits is 
supported by a transaction-specific liquidity facility in the form of an asset 
purchase agreement (APA). Under the APA, the Company has generally 

agreed to purchase non-defaulted eligible receivables from the conduit at 
par. The APA is not designed to provide credit support to the conduit, as it 

generally does not permit the purchase of defaulted or impaired assets. Any 
funding under the APA will likely subject the underlying conduit clients to 

increased interest costs. In addition, the Company provides the conduits with 
program-wide liquidity in the form of short-term lending commitments. 
Under these commitments, the Company has agreed to lend to the conduits 
in the event of a short-term disruption in the commercial paper market, 
subject to specified conditions. The Company receives fees for providing 
both types of liquidity agreements and considers these fees to be on fair 
market terms.Finally, the Company is one of several named dealers in the commercial 
paper issued by the conduits and earns a market-based fee for providing 
such services. Along with third-party dealers, the Company makes a market 
in the commercial paper and may from time to time fund commercial 
paper pending sale to a third party. On specific dates with less liquidity in 

the market, the Company may hold in inventory commercial paper issued 
by conduits administered by the Company, as well as conduits administered 

by third parties. Separately, in the normal course of business, the Company 

invests in commercial paper, including commercial paper issued by the 

Company's conduits. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company owned $11.4 billion and $10.6 billion, respectively, of the commercial paper issued by its administered conduits. The Company's investments were not driven by 
market illiquidity and the Company is not obligated under any agreement to 
purchase the commercial paper issued by the conduits.The asset-backed commercial paper conduits are consolidated by the Company. The Company has determined that, through its roles as 

administrator and liquidity provider, it has the power to direct the activities 

that most significantly impact the entities™ economic performance. These 
powers include its ability to structure and approve the assets purchased by the 
conduits, its ongoing surveillance and credit mitigation activities, its ability 
to sell or repurchase assets out of the conduits, and its liability management. 
In addition, as a result of all the Company™s involvement described above, 

it was concluded that the Company has an economic interest that could 
potentially be significant. However, the assets and liabilities of the conduits 

are separate and apart from those of Citigroup. No assets of any conduit are 
available to satisfy the creditors of Citigroup or any of its other subsidiaries.Collateralized Loan ObligationsA collateralized loan obligation (CLO) is a VIE that purchases a portfolio 
of assets consisting primarily of non-investment grade corporate loans. 
The CLO issues multiple tranches of debt and equity to investors to fund 
the asset purchases and pay upfront expenses associated with forming the 
CLO. A third-party asset manager is contracted by the CLO to purchase 
the underlying assets from the open market and monitor the credit risk 
associated with those assets. Over the term of the CLO, the asset manager 
directs purchases and sales of assets in a manner consistent with the CLO™s 
asset management agreement and indenture. In general, the CLO asset 
manager will have the power to direct the activities of the entity that most 
significantly impact the economic performance of the CLO. Investors in 
the CLO, through their ownership of debt and/or equity in the CLO, can 
also direct certain activities of the CLO, including removing the CLO asset 
manager under limited circumstances, optionally redeeming the notes, 
voting on amendments to the CLO™s operating documents and other 
activities. The CLO has a finite life, typically 12 years.Citi serves as a structuring and placement agent with respect to the CLO. Typically, the debt and equity of the CLO are sold to third-party investors. 

On occasion, certain Citi entities may purchase some portion of the CLO™s 

liabilities for investment purposes. In addition, Citi may purchase, typically 
in the secondary market, certain securities issued by the CLO to support its 
market making activities.The Company does not generally have the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the economic performance of the 
CLOs, as this power is generally held by a third-party asset manager of the 
CLO. As such, those CLOs are not consolidated.232Key Assumptions and Retained InterestsThe key assumptions used to value retained interests in CLOs, and the 
sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 10% and 20% are set forth in 
the tables below:Dec. 31, 2015

Discount rate1.4% to 49.6%In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 2015

Carrying value of retained interests
$918
˛–€€€

$(5)

(10)Asset-Based Financing
The Company provides loans and other forms of financing to VIEs that hold 
assets. Those loans are subject to the same credit approvals as all other loans 
originated or purchased by the Company. Financings in the form of debt 
securities or derivatives are, in most circumstances, reported in Trading account assets and accounted for at fair value through earnings. The 
Company generally does not have the power to direct the activities that most 
significantly impact these VIEs™ economic performance, and thus it does not 
consolidate them.The primary types of Citigroup™s asset-based financings, total assets of 
the unconsolidated VIEs with significant involvement, and the Company™s 

maximum exposure to loss are shown below. For the Company to realize the 

maximum loss, the VIE (borrower) would have to default with no recovery 
from the assets held by the VIE.December 31, 2015
In millions of dollarsTotal  
unconsolidated  
VIE assetsMaximum  
exposure to  
unconsolidated VIEsType

$41,695
$11,454

1,2741,87138555
38,67917,140Total 
(1)$82,033
$30,520

In millions of dollars•




Type


˜†–˛˝†


˝†˚˝“˙ıı
˙†–˛˝˙Total





The following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to asset-based financings:In billions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙

$Š



Š
There were no gains recognized on the securitizations of asset-based financings for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. Municipal Securities Tender Option Bond (TOB) TrustsMunicipal TOB trusts may hold fixed- or floating-rate, taxable or tax-
exempt securities issued by state and local governments and municipalities. 
TOB trusts are typically structured as single-issuer entities whose assets are 
purchased from either the Company or from other investors in the municipal 
securities market. TOB trusts finance the purchase of their municipal assets 
by issuing two classes of certificates: long-dated, floating rate certificates 
(ﬁFloatersﬂ) that are putable pursuant to a liquidity facility and residual 
interest certificates (ﬁResidualsﬂ). The Floaters are purchased by third-
party investors, typically tax-exempt money market funds. The Residuals 
are purchased by the original owner of the municipal securities that are 
being financed.233From the Company™s perspective, there are two types of TOB trusts: 
customer TOB trusts and non-customer TOB trusts. Customer TOB trusts are those trusts utilized by customers of the Company to finance their municipal 
securities investments. The Residuals issued by these trusts are purchased by 
the customer being financed. Non-customer TOB trusts are trusts that are 
used by the Company to finance its own municipal securities investments; the 
Residuals issued by non-customer TOB trusts are purchased by the Company.
With respect to both customer and non-customer TOB trusts, the Company may provide remarketing agent services. If Floaters are optionally 
tendered and the Company, in its role as remarketing agent, is unable to find 

a new investor to purchase the optionally tendered Floaters within a specified 
period of time, the Company may, but is not obligated to, purchase the 

tendered Floaters into its own inventory. The level of the Company™s inventory 

of such Floaters fluctuates. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company held $2 million and $3 million, respectively, of Floaters related to customer and non-customer TOB trusts.For certain customer TOB trusts, the Company may also serve as a voluntary advance provider. In this capacity, the Company may, but is 

not obligated to, make loan advances to customer TOB trusts to purchase 
optionally tendered Floaters that have not otherwise been successfully 
remarketed to new investors. Such loans are secured by pledged Floaters. 
As of December 31, 2015, the Company had no outstanding voluntary advances to customer TOB trusts.For certain non-customer trusts, the Company also provides credit enhancement. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, approximately $82 million and $198 million, respectively, of the municipal bonds owned by non-customer TOB trusts are subject to a credit guarantee provided by 
the Company.
The Company also provides liquidity services to many customer and non-customer trusts. If a trust is unwound early due to an event other than 
a credit event on the underlying municipal bonds, the underlying municipal 
bonds are sold out of the Trust and bond sale proceeds are used to redeem 

the outstanding Trust certificates. If this results in a shortfall between the 

bond sale proceeds and the redemption price of the tendered Floaters, the 
Company, pursuant to the liquidity agreement, would be obligated to make 

a payment to the trust to satisfy that shortfall. For certain customer TOB 
trusts the Company has also executed a reimbursement agreement with the 
holder of the Residual, pursuant to which the Residual holder is obligated 
to reimburse the Company for any payment the Company makes under the 
liquidity arrangement. These reimbursement agreements may be subject to 
daily margining based on changes in the market value of the underlying 
municipal bonds. In cases where a third party provides liquidity to a non-
customer TOB trust, a similar reimbursement arrangement may be executed, 
whereby the Company (or a consolidated subsidiary of the Company), as 
Residual holder, would absorb any losses incurred by the liquidity provider.
For certain other non-customer TOB trusts, the Company serves as tender option provider. The tender option provider arrangement allows Floater 

holders to put their interests directly to the Company at any time, subject to 
the requisite notice period requirements, at a price of par.
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, liquidity agreements provided with respect to customer TOB trusts totaled $3.1 billion and $3.7 billion, 
respectively, of which $2.2 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, were offset 
by reimbursement agreements. For the remaining exposure related to TOB 
transactions, where the Residual owned by the customer was at least 25% 
of the bond value at the inception of the transaction, no reimbursement 
agreement was executed. The Company considers both customer and non-customer TOB trusts to be VIEs. Customer TOB trusts are not consolidated by the Company, as 

the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the trust™s 

economic performance rests with the customer Residual holder, which may 

unilaterally cause the sale of the trust™s bonds.
Non-customer TOB trusts generally are consolidated because the Company holds the Residual interest, and thus has the unilateral power to 
cause the sale of the trust™s bonds.
The Company also provides other liquidity agreements or letters of credit to customer-sponsored municipal investment funds, which are not variable 

interest entities, and municipality-related issuers that totaled $8.1 billion and 
$7.4 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These liquidity agreements and letters of credit are offset by reimbursement agreements with 
various term-out provisions.Municipal InvestmentsMunicipal investment transactions include debt and equity interests in 
partnerships that finance the construction and rehabilitation of low-income 
housing, facilitate lending in new or underserved markets, or finance 
the construction or operation of renewable municipal energy facilities. 
The Company generally invests in these partnerships as a limited partner 
and earns a return primarily through the receipt of tax credits and grants 
earned from the investments made by the partnership. The Company may 
also provide construction loans or permanent loans for the development or 
operation of real estate properties held by partnerships. These entities are 
generally considered VIEs. The power to direct the activities of these entities 
is typically held by the general partner. Accordingly, these entities are not 
consolidated by the Company.234Client IntermediationClient intermediation transactions represent a range of transactions 
designed to provide investors with specified returns based on the returns 
of an underlying security, referenced asset or index. These transactions 
include credit-linked notes and equity-linked notes. In these transactions, 
the VIE typically obtains exposure to the underlying security, referenced 
asset or index through a derivative instrument, such as a total-return swap 
or a credit-default swap. In turn the VIE issues notes to investors that pay a 
return based on the specified underlying security, referenced asset or index. 
The VIE invests the proceeds in a financial asset or a guaranteed insurance 
contract that serves as collateral for the derivative contract over the term of 
the transaction. The Company™s involvement in these transactions includes 
being the counterparty to the VIE™s derivative instruments and investing in a 
portion of the notes issued by the VIE. In certain transactions, the investor™s 
maximum risk of loss is limited, and the Company absorbs risk of loss above 
a specified level. The Company does not have the power to direct the activities 
of the VIEs that most significantly impact their economic performance, and 
thus it does not consolidate them.The Company™s maximum risk of loss in these transactions is defined 
as the amount invested in notes issued by the VIE and the notional amount 
of any risk of loss absorbed by the Company through a separate instrument 
issued by the VIE. The derivative instrument held by the Company may 
generate a receivable from the VIE (for example, where the Company 
purchases credit protection from the VIE in connection with the VIE™s 

issuance of a credit-linked note), which is collateralized by the assets owned 
by the VIE. These derivative instruments are not considered variable interests, 
and any associated receivables are not included in the calculation of 
maximum exposure to the VIE.The proceeds from new securitizations related to the Company™s client 
intermediation transactions for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 totaled approximately $2.0 billion.Investment Funds
The Company is the investment manager for certain investment funds 
and retirement funds that invest in various asset classes including private 
equity, hedge funds, real estate, fixed income and infrastructure. The 
Company earns a management fee, which is a percentage of capital under 
management, and may earn performance fees. In addition, for some of these 
funds the Company has an ownership interest in the investment funds. The 
Company has also established a number of investment funds as opportunities 
for qualified employees to invest in private equity investments. The Company 
acts as investment manager to these funds and may provide employees with 
financing on both recourse and non-recourse bases for a portion of the 
employees™ investment commitments.The Company has determined that a majority of the investment entities managed by Citigroup are provided a deferral from the requirements of 
ASC 810, because they meet the criteria in Accounting Standards Update 
No. 2010-10, Consolidation (Topic 810), Amendments for Certain 
Investment Funds (ASU 2010-10). These entities continue to be evaluated 
under the requirements of ASC 810-10, prior to the implementation of 
SFAS 167 (FIN 46(R), 
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
), which 
required that a VIE be consolidated by the party with a variable interest that 
will absorb a majority of the entity™s expected losses or residual returns, or 

both. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion 
of ASU 2015-02 which includes impending changes to targeted areas of 
consolidation guidance. When ASU 2015-02 becomes effective on January 1, 
2016, it will eliminate the above noted deferral for certain investment entities 
pursuant to ASU 2010-10.235In the ordinary course of business, Citigroup enters into various types of derivative transactions. These derivative transactions include: Futures and forward contracts, which are commitments to buy or sell at a future date a financial instrument, commodity or currency at a 
contracted price and may be settled in cash or through delivery. Swap contracts, which are commitments to settle in cash at a future date 
or dates that may range from a few days to a number of years, based on 
differentials between specified indices or financial instruments, as applied 
to a notional principal amount. Option contracts, which give the purchaser, for a premium, the right, 
but not the obligation, to buy or sell within a specified time a financial 
instrument, commodity or currency at a contracted price that may also be 
settled in cash, based on differentials between specified indices or prices.Swaps and forwards and some option contracts are over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives that are bilaterally negotiated with counterparties and settled with those counterparties, except for swap contracts that are novated 
and ﬁclearedﬂ through central counterparties (CCPs). Futures contracts 
and other option contracts are standardized contracts that are traded on 
an exchange with a CCP as the counterparty from the inception of the 
transaction. Citigroup enters into these derivative contracts relating to 
interest rate, foreign currency, commodity and other market/credit risks for 

the following reasons:  Trading Purposes: Citigroup trades derivatives as an active market maker. Citigroup offers its customers derivatives in connection with their 
risk management actions to transfer, modify or reduce their interest rate, 
foreign exchange and other market/credit risks or for their own trading 
purposes. Citigroup also manages its derivative risk positions through 
offsetting trade activities, controls focused on price verification, and daily 
reporting of positions to senior managers.  Hedging: Citigroup uses derivatives in connection with its risk management activities to hedge certain risks or reposition the risk profile 
of the Company. For example, Citigroup issues fixed-rate long-term 
debt and then enters into a receive-fixed, pay-variable-rate interest rate 
swap with the same tenor and notional amount to convert the interest 
payments to a net variable-rate basis. This strategy is the most common 
form of an interest rate hedge, as it minimizes net interest cost in certain 
yield curve environments. Derivatives are also used to manage risks 
inherent in specific groups of on-balance sheet assets and liabilities, 
including AFS securities and borrowings, as well as other interest-sensitive 
assets and liabilities. In addition, foreign-exchange contracts are used to 
hedge non-U.S.-dollar-denominated debt, foreign-currency-denominated 
AFS securities and net investment exposures.Derivatives may expose Citigroup to market, credit or liquidity risks in excess of the amounts recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Market 
risk on a derivative product is the exposure created by potential fluctuations 
in interest rates, foreign-exchange rates and other factors and is a function 
of the type of product, the volume of transactions, the tenor and terms of 
the agreement and the underlying volatility. Credit risk is the exposure to 

loss in the event of nonperformance by the other party to the transaction 
where the value of any collateral held is not adequate to cover such losses. 
The recognition in earnings of unrealized gains on these transactions is 
subject to management™s assessment of the probability of counterparty 

default. Liquidity risk is the potential exposure that arises when the size of a 
derivative position may not be able to be monetized in a reasonable period of 
time and at a reasonable cost in periods of high volatility and financial stress.Derivative transactions are customarily documented under industry standard master agreements that provide that, following an uncured 
payment default or other event of default, the non-defaulting party may 
promptly terminate all transactions between the parties and determine the 
net amount due to be paid to, or by, the defaulting party. Events of default 

include: (i) failure to make a payment on a derivatives transaction that 
remains uncured following applicable notice and grace periods, (ii) breach 
of agreement that remains uncured after applicable notice and grace periods, 
(iii) breach of a representation, (iv) cross default, either to third-party debt 
or to other derivative transactions entered into between the parties, or, in 

some cases, their affiliates, (v) the occurrence of a merger or consolidation 
which results in a party™s becoming a materially weaker credit, and (vi) the 

cessation or repudiation of any applicable guarantee or other credit support 
document. Obligations under master netting agreements are often secured 
by collateral posted under an industry standard credit support annex to the 
master netting agreement. An event of default may also occur under a credit 
support annex if a party fails to make a collateral delivery that remains 
uncured following applicable notice and grace periods.The netting and collateral rights incorporated in the master netting agreements are considered to be legally enforceable if a supportive legal 
opinion has been obtained from counsel of recognized standing that provides 
the requisite level of certainty regarding enforceability and that the exercise 
of rights by the non-defaulting party to terminate and close-out transactions 
on a net basis under these agreements will not be stayed or avoided under 
applicable law upon an event of default including bankruptcy, insolvency or 

similar proceeding.236A legal opinion may not be sought for certain jurisdictions where local law is silent or unclear as to the enforceability of such rights or where adverse case law or conflicting regulation may cast doubt on the enforceability 
of such rights. In some jurisdictions and for some counterparty types, the 
insolvency law may not provide the requisite level of certainty. For example, 

this may be the case for certain sovereigns, municipalities, central banks and 
U.S. pension plans.Exposure to credit risk on derivatives is affected by market volatility, 
which may impair the ability of counterparties to satisfy their obligations 
to the Company. Credit limits are established and closely monitored for 

customers engaged in derivatives transactions. Citi considers the level of 
legal certainty regarding enforceability of its offsetting rights under master 
netting agreements and credit support annexes to be an important factor in 
its risk management process. Specifically, Citi generally transacts much lower 

volumes of derivatives under master netting agreements where Citi does not 
have the requisite level of legal certainty regarding enforceability, because 

such derivatives consume greater amounts of single counterparty credit 
limits than those executed under enforceable master netting agreements.Cash collateral and security collateral in the form of G10 government debt securities is often posted by a party to a master netting agreement to 
secure the net open exposure of the other party; the receiving party is free 
to commingle/rehypothecate such collateral in the ordinary course of its 
business. Nonstandard collateral such as corporate bonds, municipal bonds, U.S. agency securities and/or MBS may also be pledged as collateral for 
derivative transactions. Security collateral posted to open and maintain a 
master netting agreement with a counterparty, in the form of cash and/or 

securities, may from time to time be segregated in an account at a third-party 
custodian pursuant to a tri-party account control agreement.Information pertaining to Citigroup™s derivative activity, based on notional 
amounts is presented in the table below. Derivative notional amounts are 

reference amounts from which contractual payments are derived and do not 
represent a complete and accurate measure of Citi™s exposure to derivative 

transactions. Rather, as discussed above, Citi™s derivative exposure arises 

primarily from market fluctuations (i.e., market risk), counterparty failure 
(i.e., credit risk) and/or periods of high volatility or financial stress (i.e., 
liquidity risk), as well as any market valuation adjustments that may be 
required on the transactions. Moreover, notional amounts do not reflect the 

netting of offsetting trades (also as discussed above). For example, if Citi 
enters into an interest rate swap with $100 million notional, and offsets this 
risk with an identical but opposite position with a different counterparty, 

$200 million in derivative notionals is reported, although these offsetting 
positions may result in de minimis overall market risk. Aggregate derivative 
notional amounts can fluctuate from period to period in the normal 
course of business based on Citi™s market share, levels of client activity and 

other factors.237Hedging instruments under ASC 815 (1)(2)Other derivative instruments
Trading derivativesManagement hedges
 (3)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
 2015ˇ
December 31, 
 2015ˇ
December 31, 
 2015ˇ
Interest rate contracts
$166,576

$22,208,794

$28,969


Š6,868,34038,421Š3,033,6172,606Š2,887,6054,575Total interest rate contract notionals
$166,576

$34,998,356

$74,571

Foreign exchange contracts

$23,007

$4,765,687

$23,960


72,1242,563,6493,0344481,125,664Š8191,131,816ŠTotal foreign exchange contract notionals
$96,398

$9,586,816

$26,994

Equity contracts
$Š

$180,963

$Š


Š33,735ŠŠ298,876ŠŠ265,062ŠTotal equity contract notionals
$Š

$778,636

$Š

Commodity and other contracts
$Š

$70,561

$Š


789106,474ŠŠ72,648ŠŠ66,051ŠTotal commodity and other contract notionals
$789

$315,734

$Š

Credit derivatives 
(5)$Š

$950,922

$Š

Š981,58623,628Total credit derivatives
$Š

$1,932,508

$23,628

Total derivative notionals
$263,763

$47,612,050

$125,193

ˇ

ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ–›
ˇ

ˇOther assets/Other liabilities
Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities

š˘€ˇ
ˇ
Other assets/Other liabilities
Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities

ˇ
ˇˇ–›
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ

The following tables present the gross and net fair values of the Company™s derivative transactions, and the related offsetting amounts 

permitted under ASC 210-20-45 and ASC 815-10-45, as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014. Under ASC 210-20-45, gross positive fair values are offset against gross negative fair values by counterparty pursuant 
to enforceable master netting agreements. Under ASC 815-10-45, payables and receivables in respect of cash collateral received from or paid to a given 
counterparty pursuant to a credit support annex are included in the offsetting amount if a legal opinion supporting enforceability of netting and collateral 
rights has been obtained. GAAP does not permit similar offsetting for security 
collateral. The tables also include amounts that are not permitted to be 
offset under ASC 210-20-45 and ASC 815-10-45, such as security collateral posted or cash collateral posted at third-party custodians, but which would 
be eligible for offsetting to the extent an event of default occurred and a legal 
opinion supporting enforceability of the netting and collateral rights has 
been obtained.238In millions of dollars at December 31, 2015
Derivatives classified in Trading 
account assets / liabilities (1)(2)(3)Derivatives classified in Other 
assets / liabilities (2)(3)Derivatives instruments designated as ASC
 815 hedgesAssetsLiabilities
AssetsLiabilities
™⁄˚ˆ
$262$105
$2,328$106
4,6071,471
5Š
Interest rate contracts$4,869$1,576
$2,333$106
™⁄˚ˆ
$2,688$364
$95$677
Foreign exchange contracts
$2,688$364
$95$677
Total derivative instruments designated as ASC
 815 hedges$7,557$1,940
$2,428$783
Derivatives instruments not designated as ASC
 815 hedges™⁄˚ˆ$289,124$267,761
$182$12
120,848126,532
244216
5335
ŠŠ
Interest rate contracts$410,025$394,328
$426$228
™⁄˚ˆ
$126,474$133,361
$Š$66
134152
ŠŠ
2136
ŠŠ
Foreign exchange contracts
$126,629$133,549
$Š$66
™⁄˚ˆ
$14,560$20,107
$Š$Š
283ŠŠ
7,2976,406
ŠŠ
Equity contracts$21,885$26,516
$Š$Š
™⁄˚ˆ
$16,794$18,641
$Š$Š
1,2161,912
ŠŠ
Commodity and other contracts$18,010$20,553
$Š$Š
™⁄˚ˆ
$31,072$30,608
$711$245
3,8033,560
131318
Credit derivatives 
(4)$34,875$34,168
$842$563
Total derivatives instruments not designated as ASC
 815 hedges$611,424$609,114
$1,268$857
Total derivatives
$618,981$611,054
$3,696$1,640

$4,911$13,628
$8$37
‡
(524,481)(524,481)
ŠŠ

(43,227)(42,609)
(1,949)(53)
Net receivables/payables included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet 
(9)$56,184$57,592
$1,755$1,624
Additional amounts subject to an enforceable master netting agreement but not offset on the Consolidated Balance SheetLess: Cash collateral received/paid$(779)$(2)
$Š$Š
Less: Non-cash collateral received/paid(9,855)(5,131)
(270)Š
Total net receivables/payables 
(9)$45,550$52,459
$1,485$1,624
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ

Other assets/Other liabilities or Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities.
š˘€ˇ™⁄˚ˆ


›
ˇ

ˇˇ

ˇˇ
–›

ˇ

Other liabilities
›


Other assets›ˇ
‡ˇ
–›
ˇ
‡
–›
ˇ
‡–›
239In millions of dollars at December 31, 2014
Derivatives classified in Trading 
account assets / liabilitiesˇ(1)(2)(3)Derivatives classified in Other 
assets / liabilitiesˇ(2)(3)Derivatives instruments designated as ASC 815 hedges
AssetsLiabilities
AssetsLiabilities
™⁄˚ˆ




Interest rate contracts

™⁄˚ˆ


Foreign exchange contracts


Total derivative instruments designated as ASC 815 hedges


Derivatives instruments not designated as ASC 815 hedges
™⁄˚ˆ






Interest rate contracts

™⁄˚ˆ






Foreign exchange contracts


™⁄˚ˆ






Equity contracts

™⁄˚ˆ




Commodity and other contracts

™⁄˚ˆ




Credit derivatives 
(4)

Total derivatives instruments not designated as ASC 815 hedges


Total derivatives





‡





Net receivables/payables included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet 
(9)

Additional amounts subject to an enforceable master netting agreement but not offset on the Consolidated Balance SheetLess: Cash collateral received/paid

Less: Non-cash collateral received/paid

Total net receivables/payables 
(9)

ˇ
ˇ
ˇ

Other assets/Other liabilities or Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities
›š˘€ˇ™⁄˚ˆ


›
ˇ

ˇˇ

ˇˇ
–›

ˇ

Other liabilities
›


Other assets›ˇ
‡ˇ
–›
ˇ
‡
–›
ˇ
‡
240For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the amounts recognized in Principal transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income related to derivatives not designated in a qualifying hedging relationship, as well as the underlying non-derivative instruments, are 
presented in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Citigroup presents this disclosure by business classification, showing derivative gains 
and losses related to its trading activities together with gains and losses 
related to non-derivative instruments within the same trading portfolios, as 
this represents the way these portfolios are risk managed.The amounts recognized in Other revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income related to derivatives not designated in a qualifying hedging 
relationship are shown below. The table below does not include any offsetting 

gains/losses on the economically hedged items to the extent such amounts 
are also recorded in Other revenue.Gains (losses) included in Other revenue
In millions of dollars2015

$117

€
(39)

476€Total Citigroup
$554

€
Citigroup accounts for its hedging activities in accordance with ASC 815, 
Derivatives and Hedging. As a general rule, hedge accounting is permitted 
where the Company is exposed to a particular risk, such as interest-rate or 
foreign-exchange risk, that causes changes in the fair value of an asset or 
liability or variability in the expected future cash flows of an existing asset, 
liability or a forecasted transaction that may affect earnings.Derivative contracts hedging the risks associated with changes in fair value are referred to as fair value hedges, while contracts hedging the 
variability of expected future cash flows are cash flow hedges. Hedges that 
utilize derivatives or debt instruments to manage the foreign exchange 
risk associated with equity investments in non-U.S.-dollar-functional-

currency foreign subsidiaries (net investment in a foreign operation) are net 
investment hedges.If certain hedging criteria specified in ASC 815 are met, including testing for hedge effectiveness, hedge accounting may be applied. The hedge 
effectiveness assessment methodologies for similar hedges are performed 
in a similar manner and are used consistently throughout the hedging 
relationships. For fair value hedges, changes in the value of the hedging 
derivative, as well as changes in the value of the related hedged item due to 
the risk being hedged, are reflected in current earnings. For cash flow hedges 
and net investment hedges, changes in the value of the hedging derivative are 
reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Citigroup™s 

stockholders™ equity to the extent the hedge is highly effective. Hedge 
ineffectiveness, in either case, is reflected in current earnings.241For asset/liability management hedging, fixed-rate long-term debt is recorded at amortized cost under GAAP. However, by designating an interest 
rate swap contract as a hedging instrument and electing to apply ASC 815 
fair value hedge accounting, the carrying value of the debt is adjusted for 
changes in the benchmark interest rate, with such changes in value recorded 
in current earnings. The related interest-rate swap also is recorded on the 
balance sheet at fair value, with any changes in fair value also reflected in 
earnings. Thus, any ineffectiveness resulting from the hedging relationship is 
captured in current earnings.Alternatively, for management hedges that do not meet the ASC 815 
hedging criteria, the derivative is recorded at fair value on the balance sheet, 
with the associated changes in fair value recorded in earnings, while the 
debt continues to be carried at amortized cost. Therefore, current earnings 
are affected only by the interest rate shifts and other factors that cause a 
change in the swap™s value. This type of hedge is undertaken when hedging 

requirements cannot be achieved or management decides not to apply ASC 
815 hedge accounting.Another alternative is to elect to carry the debt at fair value under the fair value option. Once the irrevocable election is made upon issuance of 
the debt, the full change in fair value of the debt is reported in earnings. 
The related interest rate swap, with changes in fair value, is also reflected in 
earnings, which provides a natural offset to the debt™s fair value change. To 

the extent the two offsets are not exactly equal because the full change in the 
fair value of the debt includes risks not offset by the interest rate swap, the 
difference is captured in current earnings.The key requirements to achieve ASC 815 hedge accounting are documentation of a hedging strategy and specific hedge relationships at 
hedge inception and substantiating hedge effectiveness on an ongoing basis. 
A derivative must be highly effective in accomplishing the hedge objective of 
offsetting either changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item 
for the risk being hedged. Any ineffectiveness in the hedge relationship is 
recognized in current earnings. The assessment of effectiveness may exclude 
changes in the value of the hedged item that are unrelated to the risks being 
hedged. Similarly, the assessment of effectiveness may exclude changes 

in the fair value of a derivative related to time value that, if excluded, are 
recognized in current earnings.Hedging of Benchmark Interest Rate Risk
Citigroup hedges exposure to changes in the fair value of outstanding 
fixed-rate issued debt. These hedges are designated as fair value hedges 
of the benchmark interest rate risk associated with the currency of the 
hedged liability. The fixed cash flows of the hedged items are converted to 
benchmark variable-rate cash flows by entering into receive-fixed, pay-
variable interest rate swaps. These fair value hedge relationships use either 
regression or dollar-offset ratio analysis to assess whether the hedging 
relationships are highly effective at inception and on an ongoing basis.Citigroup also hedges exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate assets due to changes in benchmark interest rates, including available-
for-sale debt securities and loans. The hedging instruments used are 

receive-variable, pay-fixed interest rate swaps. These fair value hedging 
relationships use either regression or dollar-offset ratio analysis to assess 

whether the hedging relationships are highly effective at inception and on 
an ongoing basis.242Hedging of Foreign Exchange RiskCitigroup hedges the change in fair value attributable to foreign-exchange 
rate movements in available-for-sale securities that are denominated in 
currencies other than the functional currency of the entity holding the 
securities, which may be within or outside the U.S. The hedging instrument 
employed is generally a forward foreign-exchange contract. In this hedge, 
the change in fair value of the hedged available-for-sale security attributable 
to the portion of foreign exchange risk hedged is reported in earnings, and 
not Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)Šwhich serves to 
offset the change in fair value of the forward contract that is also reflected in 
earnings. Citigroup considers the premium associated with forward contracts 
(i.e., the differential between spot and contractual forward rates) as the 
cost of hedging; this is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness 
and reflected directly in earnings. The dollar-offset method is used to assess 
hedge effectiveness. Since that assessment is based on changes in fair value 
attributable to changes in spot rates on both the available-for-sale securities 
and the forward contracts for the portion of the relationship hedged, the 
amount of hedge ineffectiveness is not significant.The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Company™s fair value hedges:Gains (losses) on fair value hedges
 (1)Year ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2015
Gain (loss) on the derivatives in designated and qualifying fair value hedges

$(847)

1,315
41
Total gain (loss) on the derivatives in designated and qualifying fair value hedges
$509

Gain (loss) on the hedged item in designated and qualifying fair value hedges

$792

(1,258)
(35)
Total gain (loss) on the hedged item in designated and qualifying fair value hedges
$(501)

Hedge ineffectiveness recognized in earnings on designated and qualifying fair value hedges


$(47)

(23)
Total hedge ineffectiveness recognized in earnings on designated and qualifying fair value hedges
$(70)

Net gain (loss) excluded from assessment of the effectiveness of fair value hedges


$(8)
š˘€
80
6
Total net gain (loss) excluded from assessment of the effectiveness of fair value hedges
$78

ˇOther revenueˇ
Net interest revenue
ˇ
ˇ

243Hedging of Benchmark Interest Rate RiskCitigroup hedges variable cash flows associated with floating-rate liabilities 
and the rollover (re-issuance) of liabilities. Variable cash flows from those 
liabilities are converted to fixed-rate cash flows by entering into receive-
variable, pay-fixed interest rate swaps and receive-variable, pay-fixed 
forward-starting interest rate swaps. Citi also hedges variable cash flows from 
recognized and forecasted floating-rate assets. Variable cash flows from those 
assets are converted to fixed-rate cash flows by entering into receive-fixed, 
pay-variable interest rate swaps. These cash-flow hedging relationships use 
either regression analysis or dollar-offset ratio analysis to assess whether 
the hedging relationships are highly effective at inception and on an 
ongoing basis. When certain variable interest rates, associated with hedged 
items, do not qualify as benchmark interest rates, Citigroup designates the 
risk being hedged as the risk of overall changes in the hedged cash flows. 
Since efforts are made to match the terms of the derivatives to those of the 
hedged forecasted cash flows as closely as possible, the amount of hedge 
ineffectiveness is not significant.Hedging of Foreign Exchange Risk
Citigroup locks in the functional currency equivalent cash flows of long-
term debt and short-term borrowings that are denominated in currencies 
other than the functional currency of the issuing entity. Depending on the 
risk management objectives, these types of hedges are designated as either 
cash flow hedges of only foreign exchange risk or cash flow hedges of both 
foreign exchange and interest rate risk, and the hedging instruments used 
are foreign exchange cross-currency swaps and forward contracts. These 
cash flow hedge relationships use dollar-offset ratio analysis to determine 
whether the hedging relationships are highly effective at inception and on an 
ongoing basis.Hedging Total ReturnCitigroup generally manages the risk associated with leveraged loans it 
has originated or in which it participates by transferring a majority of its 
exposure to the market through SPEs prior to or shortly after funding. 
Retained exposures to leveraged loans receivable are generally hedged using 
total return swaps.The amount of hedge ineffectiveness on the cash flow hedges recognized in earnings for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 is not significant. The pretax change in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) from cash flow hedges is presented below:Year ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2015
Effective portion of cash flow hedges included in AOCI

$357

(220)

Š
Total effective portion of cash flow hedges included in AOCI
$137

Effective portion of cash flow hedges reclassified from AOCI to earnings


$(186)
(146)
Total effective portion of cash flow hedges reclassified from AOCI to earnings
(1)$(332)
ˇ
Other revenueNet interest revenue
For cash flow hedges, the changes in the fair value of the hedging derivative remaining in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the Consolidated Balance Sheet will be included in the earnings of future 
periods to offset the variability of the hedged cash flows when such cash 
flows affect earnings. The net loss associated with cash flow hedges expected 
to be reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
within 12 months of December 31, 2015 is approximately $0.3 billion. The maximum length of time over which forecasted cash flows are hedged is 
10 years.The after-tax impact of cash flow hedges on AOCI is shown in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Consistent with ASC 830-20, Foreign Currency MattersŠForeign 
Currency Transactions, ASC 815 allows hedging of the foreign currency 
risk of a net investment in a foreign operation. Citigroup uses foreign 
currency forwards, options and foreign-currency-denominated debt 
instruments to manage the foreign exchange risk associated with Citigroup™s 
equity investments in several non-U.S.-dollar-functional-currency foreign 
subsidiaries. Citigroup records the change in the carrying amount of these 
investments in the Foreign currency translation adjustment account 
within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Simultaneously, 
the effective portion of the hedge of this exposure is also recorded in the 
Foreign currency translation adjustment account and the ineffective 
portion, if any, is immediately recorded in earnings.244For derivatives designated as net investment hedges, Citigroup follows the forward-rate method outlined in ASC 815-35-35-16 through 35-26. According to that method, all changes in fair value, including changes related to the 
forward-rate component of the foreign currency forward contracts and the 
time value of foreign currency options, are recorded in the Foreign currency translation adjustment account within Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss).For foreign-currency-denominated debt instruments that are designated as hedges of net investments, the translation gain or loss that is recorded in 
the Foreign currency translation adjustment account is based on the spot 
exchange rate between the functional currency of the respective subsidiary 
and the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of Citigroup. To the 

extent the notional amount of the hedging instrument exactly matches the 
hedged net investment and the underlying exchange rate of the derivative 
hedging instrument relates to the exchange rate between the functional 
currency of the net investment and Citigroup™s functional currency (or, in the 

case of a non-derivative debt instrument, such instrument is denominated in 
the functional currency of the net investment), no ineffectiveness is recorded 
in earnings.The pretax gain (loss) recorded in the Foreign currency translation adjustment account within Accumulated other comprehensive income 
(loss), related to the effective portion of the net investment hedges, is 
$2,475 million, $2,890 million and $2,370 million for the years ended 
December 31, 2015 2014 and 2013, respectively.Citi is a market maker and trades a range of credit derivatives. Through these 
contracts, Citi either purchases or writes protection on either a single name 
or a portfolio of reference credits. Citi also uses credit derivatives to help 
mitigate credit risk in its corporate and consumer loan portfolios and other 
cash positions, and to facilitate client transactions.Citi monitors its counterparty credit risk in credit derivative contracts. As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, approximately 98% of the gross receivables are from counterparties with which Citi maintains collateral 
agreements. A majority of Citi™s top 15 counterparties (by receivable balance owed to Citi) are banks, financial institutions or other dealers. Contracts 
with these counterparties do not include ratings-based termination events. 
However, counterparty ratings downgrades may have an incremental effect by 

lowering the threshold at which Citi may call for additional collateral.The range of credit derivatives entered into includes credit default swaps, total return swaps, credit options and credit-linked notes.A credit default swap is a contract in which, for a fee, a protection seller agrees to reimburse a protection buyer for any losses that occur due to a 
predefined credit event on a reference entity. These credit events are defined 

by the terms of the derivative contract and the reference credit and are 
generally limited to the market standard of failure to pay on indebtedness 
and bankruptcy of the reference credit and, in a more limited range of 
transactions, debt restructuring. Credit derivative transactions that reference 
emerging market entities will also typically include additional credit events to cover the acceleration of indebtedness and the risk of repudiation or a 
payment moratorium. In certain transactions, protection may be provided 
on a portfolio of reference entities or asset-backed securities. If there is no 
credit event, as defined by the specific derivative contract, then the protection 
seller makes no payments to the protection buyer and receives only the 
contractually specified fee. However, if a credit event occurs as defined in 

the specific derivative contract sold, the protection seller will be required to 
make a payment to the protection buyer. Under certain contracts, the seller of 

protection may not be required to make a payment until a specified amount 
of losses has occurred with respect to the portfolio and/or may only be 
required to pay for losses up to a specified amount.A total return swap typically transfers the total economic performance of a reference asset, which includes all associated cash flows, as well as capital 
appreciation or depreciation. The protection buyer receives a floating rate of 
interest and any depreciation on the reference asset from the protection seller 
and, in return, the protection seller receives the cash flows associated with 
the reference asset plus any appreciation. Thus, according to the total return 
swap agreement, the protection seller will be obligated to make a payment 
any time the floating interest rate payment plus any depreciation of the 
reference asset exceeds the cash flows associated with the underlying asset. 
A total return swap may terminate upon a default of the reference asset or 
a credit event with respect to the reference entity subject to the provisions of 
the related total return swap agreement between the protection seller and the 
protection buyer.
A credit option is a credit derivative that allows investors to trade or hedge changes in the credit quality of a reference entity. For example, in a credit 

spread option, the option writer assumes the obligation to purchase or sell 
credit protection on the reference entity at a specified ﬁstrikeﬂ spread level. 
The option purchaser buys the right to sell credit default protection on the 
reference entity to, or purchase it from, the option writer at the strike spread 
level. The payments on credit spread options depend either on a particular 
credit spread or the price of the underlying credit-sensitive asset or other 
reference. The options usually terminate if a credit event occurs with respect 
to the underlying reference entity.
A credit-linked note is a form of credit derivative structured as a debt security with an embedded credit default swap. The purchaser of the note 
effectively provides credit protection to the issuer by agreeing to receive a 
return that could be negatively affected by credit events on the underlying 
reference credit. If the reference entity defaults, the note may be cash settled 
or physically settled by delivery of a debt security of the reference entity. Thus, 

the maximum amount of the note purchaser™s exposure is the amount paid 

for the credit-linked note.245The following tables summarize the key characteristics of Citi™s credit derivatives portfolio by counterparty and derivative form:Fair values
NotionalsIn millions of dollars at December 31, 2015
Receivable 
(1)Payable 
(2)Protection purchasedProtection soldBy industry/counterparty
$18,377$16,988$513,335$508,459

5,8956,697155,195152,604
1281233,9692,087
11,31710,923332,715287,772
Total by industry/counterparty
$35,717$34,731$1,005,214$950,922
By instrument

$34,849$34,158$981,999$940,650
•
86857323,21510,272
Total by instrument
$35,717$34,731$1,005,214$950,922
By rating

$12,694$13,142$764,040$720,521

23,02321,589241,174230,401
Total by rating
$35,717$34,731$1,005,214$950,922
By maturity
ˇ$3,871$3,559$265,632$254,225
ˇ27,99127,488669,834639,460
ˇ3,8553,68469,74857,237
Total by maturity
$35,717$34,731$1,005,214$950,922
ˇ
ˇ
Fair values
NotionalsIn millions of dollars at December 31, 2014
Receivable 
(1)Payable 
(2)Protection purchasedProtection soldBy industry/counterparty






Total by industry/counterparty

By instrument


•

Total by instrument

By rating




Total by rating

By maturity
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
Total by maturity

ˇ
ˇˇ
246Fair values included in the above tables are prior to application of any netting agreements and cash collateral. For notional amounts, Citi generally has a mismatch between the total notional amounts of protection purchased 
and sold, and it may hold the reference assets directly, rather than entering 

into offsetting credit derivative contracts as and when desired. The open risk 
exposures from credit derivative contracts are largely matched after certain 
cash positions in reference assets are considered and after notional amounts 
are adjusted, either to a duration-based equivalent basis or to reflect the level 
of subordination in tranched structures. The ratings of the credit derivatives 
portfolio presented in the tables and used to evaluate payment/performance 
risk are based on the assigned internal or external ratings of the referenced 
asset or entity. Where external ratings are used, investment-grade ratings are 

considered to be ‚Baa/BBB™ and above, while anything below is considered 
non-investment grade. Citi™s internal ratings are in line with the related 

external rating system.Citigroup evaluates the payment/performance risk of the credit derivatives for which it stands as a protection seller based on the credit rating assigned to 
the underlying referenced credit. Credit derivatives written on an underlying 
non-investment grade reference credit represent greater payment risk to 
the Company. The non-investment grade category in the table above also 

includes credit derivatives where the underlying referenced entity has been 
downgraded subsequent to the inception of the derivative.The maximum potential amount of future payments under credit derivative contracts presented in the table above is based on the notional 
value of the derivatives. The Company believes that the notional amount for 
credit protection sold is not representative of the actual loss exposure based 
on historical experience. This amount has not been reduced by the value 
of the reference assets and the related cash flows. In accordance with most 
credit derivative contracts, should a credit event occur, the Company usually 

is liable for the difference between the protection sold and the value of the 
reference assets. Furthermore, the notional amount for credit protection sold 
has not been reduced for any cash collateral paid to a given counterparty, 

as such payments would be calculated after netting all derivative exposures, 
including any credit derivatives with that counterparty in accordance 
with a related master netting agreement. Due to such netting processes, 
determining the amount of collateral that corresponds to credit derivative 
exposures alone is not possible. The Company actively monitors open credit-
risk exposures and manages this exposure by using a variety of strategies, 
including purchased credit derivatives, cash collateral or direct holdings 
of the referenced assets. This risk mitigation activity is not captured in the 
table above.247Certain derivative instruments contain provisions that require the Company to either post additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding 
liability balances upon the occurrence of a specified event related to the 
credit risk of the Company. These events, which are defined by the existing 
derivative contracts, are primarily downgrades in the credit ratings of the 
Company and its affiliates. The fair value (excluding CVA) of all derivative 
instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that were in a net 
liability position at both December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 was $22 billion and $30 billion, respectively. The Company had posted $19 billion 
and $27 billion as collateral for this exposure in the normal course of 
business as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively.A downgrade could trigger additional collateral or cash settlement requirements for the Company and certain affiliates. In the event that 
Citigroup and Citibank were downgraded a single notch by all three major 
rating agencies as of December 31, 2015, the Company could be required to post an additional $1.8 billion as either collateral or settlement of the 
derivative transactions. Additionally, the Company could be required to segregate with third-party custodians collateral previously received from 
existing derivative counterparties in the amount of $0.1 billion upon 
the single notch downgrade, resulting in aggregate cash obligations and 
collateral requirements of approximately $1.9 billion.The Company executes total return swaps which provide it with synthetic 
exposure to substantially all of the economic return of the securities or other 
financial assets referenced in the contract. In certain cases, the derivative 
transaction is accompanied by the Company™s transfer of the referenced 
financial asset to the derivative counterparty, most typically in response 
to the derivative counterparty™s desire to hedge, in whole or in part, its 
synthetic exposure under the derivative contract by holding the referenced 
asset in funded form. In certain jurisdictions these transactions qualify as 
sales, resulting in derecognition of the securities transferred (see Note 1 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the related 
sale conditions for transfers of financial assets). For a significant portion of 
the transactions, the Company has also executed another total return swap 
where the Company passes on substantially all of the economic return of 
the referenced securities to a different third party seeking the exposure. In 
those cases, the Company is not exposed, on a net basis, to changes in the 
economic return of the referenced securities.These transactions generally involve the transfer of the Company™s 
liquid government bonds, convertible bonds, or publicly traded corporate 
equity securities from the trading portfolio and are executed with third-
party financial institutions. The accompanying derivatives are typically 
total return swaps. The derivatives are cash settled and subject to ongoing 
margin requirements.When the conditions for sale accounting are met, the Company reports the transfer of the referenced financial asset as a sale and separately reports 
the accompanying derivative transaction. These transactions generally do 
not result in a gain or loss on the sale of the security, because the transferred 

security was held at fair value in the Company™s trading portfolio. For 

transfers of financial assets accounted for by the Company as a sale, where 
the Company has retained substantially all of the economic exposure to the 
transferred asset through a total return swap executed in contemplation 
of the initial sale with the same counterparty and still outstanding as of 
December 31, 2015, both the asset carrying amounts derecognized and gross cash proceeds received as of the date of derecognition were $1.0 billion. At 
December 31, 2015, the fair value of these previously derecognized assets was $1.0 billion and the fair value of the total return swaps was $7 million 
recorded as gross derivative assets and $35 million recorded as gross 
derivative liabilities. The balances for the total return swaps are on a gross 
basis, before the application of counterparty and cash collateral netting, 
and are included primarily as equity derivatives in the tabular disclosures in 
this Note.248Concentrations of credit risk exist when changes in economic, industry or geographic factors similarly affect groups of counterparties whose aggregate 
credit exposure is material in relation to Citigroup™s total credit exposure. 
Although Citigroup™s portfolio of financial instruments is broadly diversified 
along industry, product, and geographic lines, material transactions are 
completed with other financial institutions, particularly in the securities 
trading, derivatives and foreign exchange businesses.In connection with the Company™s efforts to maintain a diversified 
portfolio, the Company limits its exposure to any one geographic region, 
country or individual creditor and monitors this exposure on a continuous 
basis. At December 31, 2015, Citigroup™s most significant concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies. The Company™s 

exposure, which primarily results from trading assets and investments 
issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, amounted to $223.0 billion 
and $216.3 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Mexican and United Kingdom governments and their agencies, which are 
rated investment grade by both Moody™s and S&P, were the next largest 

exposures. The Company™s exposure to Mexico amounted to $22.5 billion and 

$29.7 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and was composed of investment securities, loans and trading assets. The Company™s exposure 

to the United Kingdom amounted to $20.4 billion and $18.0 billion at 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and was composed of investment securities, loans and trading assets.The Company™s exposure to states and municipalities amounted to 
$29.3 billion and $31.0 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and was composed of trading assets, investment securities, derivatives and 
lending activities.249ASC 820-10 Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value, establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value and requires disclosures about 
fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as the price that would be 
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. Among other things, 
the standard requires the Company to maximize the use of observable inputs 
and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.Under ASC 820-10, the probability of default of a counterparty is factored into the valuation of derivative and other positions as well as the impact of 
Citigroup™s own credit risk on derivatives and other liabilities measured at 

fair value.ASC 820-10 specifies a hierarchy of inputs based on whether the inputs are 
observable or unobservable. Observable inputs are developed using market 
data and reflect market participant assumptions, while unobservable inputs 
reflect the Company™s market assumptions. These two types of inputs have 
created the following fair value hierarchy: Level 1: Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Level 2: Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and 
significant value drivers are observable in active markets. Level 3: Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.As required under the fair value hierarchy, the Company considers 
relevant and observable market inputs in its valuations where possible. The 
frequency of transactions, the size of the bid-ask spread and the amount of 
adjustment necessary when comparing similar transactions are all factors in 
determining the liquidity of markets and the relevance of observed prices in 
those markets.The Company™s policy with respect to transfers between levels of the fair 
value hierarchy is to recognize transfers into and out of each level as of the 
end of the reporting period.For assets and liabilities carried at fair value, the Company measures fair 
value using the procedures set out below, irrespective of whether the assets 
and liabilities are measured at fair value as a result of an election or whether 
they are required to be measured at fair value.When available, the Company uses quoted market prices to determine fair value and classifies such items as Level 1. In some cases where a market price is available, the Company will make use of acceptable practical expedients 
(such as matrix pricing) to calculate fair value, in which case the items are 
classified as Level 2.The Company may also apply a price-based methodology, which utilizes, where available, quoted prices or other market information obtained from 
recent trading activity in positions with the same or similar characteristics 
to the position being valued. The market activity and the amount of the 
bid-ask spread are among the factors considered in determining the liquidity 
of markets and the observability of prices from those markets. If relevant and 
observable prices are available, those valuations may be classified as Level 2. When less liquidity exists for a security or loan, a quoted price is stale, a 
significant adjustment to the price of a similar security is necessary to reflect 
differences in the terms of the actual security or loan being valued, or prices 
from independent sources are insufficient to corroborate the valuation, the 
ﬁpriceﬂ inputs are considered unobservable and the fair value measurements 
are classified as Level 3.If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed valuation techniques that use, where possible, current 
market-based parameters, such as interest rates, currency rates and 
option volatilities. Items valued using such internally generated valuation 
techniques are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver 
that is significant to the valuation. Thus, an item may be classified as Level 3 even though there may be some significant inputs that are readily observable.Fair value estimates from internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, to prices obtained from independent vendors or brokers. 
Vendors™ and brokers™ valuations may be based on a variety of inputs ranging from observed prices to proprietary valuation models.The following section describes the valuation methodologies used by the Company to measure various financial instruments at fair value, 
including an indication of the level in the fair value hierarchy in which each 
instrument is generally classified. Where appropriate, the description includes 
details of the valuation models, the key inputs to those models and any 
significant assumptions.Market Valuation AdjustmentsGenerally, the unit of account for a financial instrument is the individual 
financial instrument. The Company applies market valuation adjustments 
that are consistent with the unit of account, which does not include 
adjustment due to the size of the Company™s position, except as follows. 
ASC 820-10 permits an exception, through an accounting policy election, 
to measure the fair value of a portfolio of financial assets and financial 
liabilities on the basis of the net open risk position when certain criteria are 
met. Citi has elected to measure certain portfolios of financial instruments, 
such as derivatives, that meet those criteria on the basis of the net open risk 
position. The Company applies market valuation adjustments, including 
adjustments to account for the size of the net open risk position, consistent 
with market participant assumptions and in accordance with the unit 
of account.250Liquidity adjustments are applied to items in Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair-value hierarchy in an effort to ensure that the fair value reflects the 
price at which the net open risk position could be liquidated. The liquidity 
adjustment is based on the bid/offer spread for an instrument. When Citi 
has elected to measure certain portfolios of financial investments, such as 
derivatives, on the basis of the net open risk position, the liquidity adjustment 
may be adjusted to take into account the size of the position.Credit valuation adjustments (CVA) and, effective in the third quarter 
of 2014, funding valuation adjustments (FVA), are applied to over-the-

counter (OTC) derivative instruments in which the base valuation generally 
discounts expected cash flows using the relevant base interest rate curve 
for the currency of the derivative (e.g., LIBOR for uncollateralized U.S.-
dollar derivatives). As not all counterparties have the same credit risk as 
that implied by the relevant base curve, a CVA is necessary to incorporate 

the market view of both counterparty credit risk and Citi™s own credit risk 

in the valuation. FVA reflects a market funding risk premium inherent in 

the uncollateralized portion of derivative portfolios, and in collateralized 
derivatives where the terms of the agreement do not permit the reuse of the 
collateral received.Citi™s CVA and FVA methodology is composed of two steps:
 First, the exposure profile for each counterparty is determined using the 
terms of all individual derivative positions and a Monte Carlo simulation 
or other quantitative analysis to generate a series of expected cash flows 
at future points in time. The calculation of this exposure profile considers 
the effect of credit risk mitigants and sources of funding, including 
pledged cash or other collateral and any legal right of offset that exists 
with a counterparty through arrangements such as netting agreements. 
Individual derivative contracts that are subject to an enforceable master 
netting agreement with a counterparty are aggregated as a netting set 
for this purpose, since it is those aggregate net cash flows that are subject 
to nonperformance risk. This process identifies specific, point-in-time 
future cash flows that are subject to nonperformance risk and unsecured 
funding, rather than using the current recognized net asset or liability as 
a basis to measure the CVA and FVA. Second, for CVA, market-based views of default probabilities derived 
from observed credit spreads in the credit default swap (CDS) market 
are applied to the expected future cash flows determined in step one. 
Citi™s own-credit CVA is determined using Citi-specific CDS spreads for 
the relevant tenor. Generally, counterparty CVA is determined using CDS 
spread indices for each credit rating and tenor. For certain identified 
netting sets where individual analysis is practicable (e.g., exposures to 
counterparties with liquid CDSs), counterparty-specific CDS spreads are 
used. For FVA, a term structure of future liquidity spreads is applied to the 
expected future funding requirement.The CVA and FV
A are designed to incorporate a market view of the credit and funding risk, respectively, inherent in the derivative portfolio. However, 

most unsecured derivative instruments are negotiated bilateral contracts 
and are not commonly transferred to third parties. Derivative instruments 
are normally settled contractually or, if terminated early, are terminated at 

a value negotiated bilaterally between the counterparties. Thus, the CVA and 

FVA may not be realized upon a settlement or termination in the normal 

course of business. In addition, all or a portion of these adjustments may be 
reversed or otherwise adjusted in future periods in the event of changes in the 
credit or funding risk associated with the derivative instruments.The table below summarizes the CVA and FVA applied to the fair value of 
derivative instruments at December 31, 2015 and 2014:Credit and funding valuation adjustments contra-liability (contra-asset)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2015
$(1,470)


(584)
471
106Total CVAŠderivative instruments
 (1)$(1,477)

ˇ
The table below summarizes pretax gains (losses) related to changes in CVA on derivative instruments, net of hedges, FVA on derivatives and debt 

valuation adjustments (DVA) on Citi™s own fair value option (FVO) liabilities 

for the years indicated:Credit/funding/debt valuation adjustments gain (loss)In millions of dollars2015

$(115)


(66)—

(28)

98—
Total CVAŠderivative instruments
$(111)


$366

Total CVA and DVA
 (1)$255

ˇ
251Price verification procedures and related internal control procedures are governed by the Citigroup Pricing and Price Verification Policy and 
Standards, which is jointly owned by Finance and Risk Management.For fair value measurements of substantially all assets and liabilities held by the Company, individual business units are responsible for valuing 

the trading account assets and liabilities, and Product Control within 
Finance performs independent price verification procedures to evaluate 
those fair value measurements. Product Control is independent of the 
individual business units and reports to the Global Head of Product Control. 
It has authority over the valuation of financial assets and liabilities. Fair 
value measurements of assets and liabilities are determined using various 
techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flows and internal 
models, such as option and correlation models.Based on the observability of inputs used, Product Control classifies the inventory as Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. When a position involves one or more significant inputs that are not directly 
observable, price verification procedures are performed that may include 
reviewing relevant historical data, analyzing profit and loss, valuing 
each component of a structured trade individually, and benchmarking, 

among others.Reports of inventory that is classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are distributed to senior management in Finance, Risk and the 
business. This inventory is also discussed in Risk Committees and in monthly 
meetings with senior trading management. As deemed necessary, reports may go to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors or to the full Board of 
Directors. Whenever an adjustment is needed to bring the price of an asset or 
liability to its exit price, Product Control reports it to management along with 
other price verification results.In addition, the pricing models used in measuring fair value are governed by an independent control framework. Although the models are developed 
and tested by the individual business units, they are independently validated 
by the Model Validation Group within Risk Management and reviewed by 

Finance with respect to their impact on the price verification procedures. The 
purpose of this independent control framework is to assess model risk arising 
from models™ theoretical soundness, calibration techniques where needed, 
and the appropriateness of the model for a specific product in a defined 
market. To ensure their continued applicability, models are independently 

reviewed annually. In addition, Risk Management approves and maintains 

a list of products permitted to be valued under each approved model for a 
given business.Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase
No quoted prices exist for these instruments, so fair value is determined using 
a discounted cash-flow technique. Cash flows are estimated based on the 
terms of the contract, taking into account any embedded derivative or other 
features. These cash flows are discounted using interest rates appropriate 
to the maturity of the instrument as well as the nature of the underlying 
collateral. Generally, when such instruments are recorded at fair value, they 
are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, as the inputs used in the valuation are readily observable. However, certain long-dated positions 
are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.Trading Account Assets and LiabilitiesŠTrading Securities 
and Trading Loans
When available, the Company uses quoted market prices in active markets 
to determine the fair value of trading securities; such items are classified as 
Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Examples include government securities and exchange-traded equity securities.For bonds and secondary market loans traded over the counter, the Company generally determines fair value utilizing valuation techniques, 
including discounted cash flows, price-based and internal models, such as 
Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo simulation. Fair value estimates from these 
internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, to prices obtained 
from independent sources, including third-party vendors. Vendors compile 

prices from various sources and may apply matrix pricing for similar bonds 
or loans where no price is observable. A price-based methodology utilizes, 
where available, quoted prices or other market information obtained from 
recent trading activity of assets with similar characteristics to the bond 
or loan being valued. The yields used in discounted cash flow models are 
derived from the same price information. Trading securities and loans priced 

using such methods are generally classified as Level 2. However, when less liquidity exists for a security or loan, a quoted price is stale, a significant 
adjustment to the price of a similar security or loan is necessary to reflect 
differences in the terms of the actual security or loan being valued, or prices 
from independent sources are insufficient to corroborate valuation, a loan or 
security is generally classified as Level 3. The price input used in a price-based methodology may be zero for a security, such as a subprime CDO, that is not receiving any principal or interest and is currently written down 
to zero.When the Company™s principal market for a portfolio of loans is the 
securitization market, the Company uses the securitization price to determine 
the fair value of the portfolio. The securitization price is determined from 
the assumed proceeds of a hypothetical securitization in the current market, 
adjusted for transformation costs (i.e., direct costs other than transaction costs) and securitization uncertainties such as market conditions and 
liquidity. As a result of the severe reduction in the level of activity in certain securitization markets since the second half of 2007, observable 
securitization prices for certain directly comparable portfolios of loans 
have not been readily available. Therefore, such portfolios of loans are 
generally classified as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. However, for other 
loan securitization markets, such as commercial real estate loans, price 
verification of the hypothetical securitizations has been possible, since these 
markets have remained active. Accordingly, this loan portfolio is classified as 

Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.For most of the lending and structured direct subprime exposures, fair value is determined utilizing observable transactions where available, 
other market data for similar assets in markets that are not active and 
other internal valuation techniques. The valuation of certain asset-backed 
security (ABS) CDO positions utilizes prices based on the underlying assets of 
the ABS CDO.252Trading Account Assets and LiabilitiesŠDerivativesExchange-traded derivatives, measured at fair value using quoted 
(i.e., exchange) prices in active markets, where available, are classified as Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.Derivatives without a quoted price in an active market and derivatives executed over the counter are valued using internal valuation techniques. 
These derivative instruments are classified as either Level 2 or Level 3 depending upon the observability of the significant inputs to the model.The valuation techniques and inputs depend on the type of derivative and the nature of the underlying instrument. The principal techniques used 
to value these instruments are discounted cash flows and internal models, 
including Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo simulation.The key inputs depend upon the type of derivative and the nature of the underlying instrument and include interest rate yield curves, 
foreign-exchange rates, volatilities and correlation. The Company uses 
overnight indexed swap (OIS) curves as fair value measurement inputs 
for the valuation of certain collateralized derivatives. Citi uses the relevant 
benchmark curve for the currency of the derivative (e.g., the London 
Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar derivatives) as the discount rate for 
uncollateralized derivatives.As referenced above, during the third quarter of 2014, Citi incorporated FVA into the fair value measurements due to what it believes to be an industry migration toward incorporating the market™s view of funding risk 

premium in OTC derivatives. The charge incurred in connection with the 
implementation of FVA was reflected in 
Principal transactions as a change 
in accounting estimate. Citi™s FVA methodology leverages the existing 

CVA methodology to estimate a funding exposure profile. The calculation 

of this exposure profile considers collateral agreements where the terms 
do not permit the firm to reuse the collateral received, including where 
counterparties post collateral to third-party custodians.Investments
The investments category includes available-for-sale debt and marketable 
equity securities whose fair values are generally determined by utilizing 
similar procedures described for trading securities above or, in some cases, 
using vendor pricing as the primary source.Also included in investments are nonpublic investments in private equity and real estate entities. Determining the fair value of nonpublic securities 
involves a significant degree of management judgment, as no quoted prices 
exist and such securities are generally thinly traded. In addition, there may 
be transfer restrictions on private equity securities. The Company™s process 

for determining the fair value of such securities utilizes commonly accepted 
valuation techniques, including comparables analysis. In determining the 
fair value of nonpublic securities, the Company also considers events such 
as a proposed sale of the investee company, initial public offerings, equity 

issuances or other observable transactions.Private equity securities are generally classified as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.In addition, the Company holds investments in certain alternative investment funds that calculate NAV per share, including hedge funds, 

private equity funds and real estate funds. Investments in funds are generally 
classified as non-marketable equity securities carried at fair value. The fair 
values of these investments are estimated using the NAV per share of the 

Company™s ownership interest in the funds where it is not probable that the 

investment will be realized at a price other than the NAV. Consistent with the 

provisions of ASU No. 2015-07 these investments have not been categorized 
within the fair value hierarchy and are not included in the tables below. See 

Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.253Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term DebtWhere fair value accounting has been elected, the fair value of non-
structured liabilities is determined by utilizing internal models using the 
appropriate discount rate for the applicable maturity. Such instruments are 
generally classified as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy when all significant inputs are readily observable.The Company determines the fair value of hybrid financial instruments, including structured liabilities, using the appropriate derivative valuation 
methodology (described above in ﬁTrading account assets and liabilitiesŠderivativesﬂ) given the nature of the embedded risk profile. Such instruments 
are classified as Level 2 or Level 3 depending on the observability of significant inputs to the model.Alt-A Mortgage SecuritiesThe Company classifies its Alt-A mortgage securities as held-to-maturity, 
available-for-sale or trading investments. The securities classified as trading 
and available-for-sale are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value 
reported in current earnings and AOCI, respectively. For these purposes, Citi 
defines Alt-A mortgage securities as non-agency residential mortgage-backed 
securities (RMBS) where (i) the underlying collateral has weighted average FICO scores between 680 and 720 or (ii) for instances where FICO scores are greater than 720, RMBS have 30% or less of the underlying collateral 
composed of full documentation loans.Similar to the valuation methodologies used for other trading securities and trading loans, the Company generally determines the fair values of 
Alt-A mortgage securities utilizing internal valuation techniques. Fair value 
estimates from internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, to 
prices obtained from independent vendors. Consensus data providers compile 
prices from various sources. Where available, the Company may also make 
use of quoted prices for recent trading activity in securities with the same or 
similar characteristics to the security being valued.The valuation techniques used for Alt-A mortgage securities, as with other mortgage exposures, are price-based and yield analysis. The primary market-
derived input is yield. Cash flows are based on current collateral performance 
with prepayment rates and loss projections reflective of current economic 
conditions of housing price change, unemployment rates, interest rates, 
borrower attributes and other market indicators.Alt-A mortgage securities that are valued using these methods are generally classified as Level 2. However, Alt-A mortgage securities backed by Alt-A mortgages of lower quality or subordinated tranches in the capital 
structure are mostly classified as Level 3 due to the reduced liquidity that exists for such positions, which reduces the reliability of prices available from 
independent sources.254The following tables present for each of the fair value hierarchy levels the Company™s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on 
a recurring basis at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014. The Company™s hedging of positions that have been classified in the Level 3 category is not limited to other financial instruments (hedging instruments) 
that have been classified as Level 3, but also instruments classified as Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The effects of these hedges are presented gross in the following tables:Fair Value Levels
In millions of dollars at December 31, 2015
Level 1(1)Level 2(1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting
(2)Net balanceAssetsFederal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under  
agreements to resell$Š$177,538$1,337$178,875$(40,911)$137,964
Trading non-derivative assets
Trading mortgage-backed securities
⁄…‹…
Š24,02374424,767Š24,767
Š1,0591,3262,385Š2,385
Š2,3385172,855Š2,855
Total trading mortgage-backed securities
$Š$27,420$2,587$30,007$Š$
30,007U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
$14,208$3,587$1$17,796$Š$17,796
State and municipalŠ2,3453512,696Š2,696
Foreign government
35,71520,69719756,609Š56,609
Corporate30213,75937614,437Š14,437
Equity securities50,4292,3823,68456,495Š56,495
Asset-backed securitiesŠ1,2172,7393,956Š3,956
Other trading assetsŠ9,2932,48311,776Š11,776
Total trading non-derivative assets
$100,654$80,700$12,418$193,772$Š$193,772
Trading derivatives

$9$412,802$2,083$414,894
5128,1891,123129,317
2,42217,8661,59721,885
20416,7061,10018,010

Š31,0823,79334,875
Total trading derivatives
$2,640$606,645$9,696$618,981
Cash collateral paid (3)$4,911
Netting agreements$(524,481)
Netting of cash collateral received(43,227)Total trading derivatives
$2,640$606,645$9,696$623,892$(567,708)$56,184
InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities⁄…‹…
$Š$39,575$139$39,714$Š$39,714
Š5,98245,986Š5,986
Š5692571Š571
Total investment mortgage-backed securities
$Š$46,126$145$46,271$Š$
46,271U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
$111,536$11,375$4$122,915$Š$122,915
State and municipalŠ9,2672,19211,459Š11,459
Foreign government
42,07349,86826092,201Š92,201
Corporate3,60511,59560315,803Š15,803
Equity securities43071124625Š625
Asset-backed securitiesŠ8,5785969,174Š9,174
Other debt securitiesŠ688Š688Š688
Non-marketable equity securities (4)Š581,1351,193Š1,193
Total investments
$157,644$137,626$5,059$300,329$Š$300,329
™
255In millions of dollars at December 31, 2015
Level 1(1)Level 2(1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting
(2)Net balanceLoans (5)$Š$2,839$2,166$5,005$Š$5,005
Mortgage servicing rights
ŠŠ1,7811,781Š1,781
Non-trading derivatives and other financial assets measured  
on a recurring basis, gross
$Š$7,882$180$8,062
Cash collateral paid (6)8Netting of cash collateral received$(1,949)
Non-trading derivatives and other financial assets measured  
on a recurring basis$Š$7,882$180$8,070$(1,949)$6,121
Total assets
$260,938$1,013,230$32,637$1,311,724$(610,568)$701,156
Total as a percentage of gross assets 
(7)20.0%77.5%2.5%
LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits$Š$1,156$434$1,590$Š$1,590
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under 
agreements to repurchaseŠ76,5071,24777,754(40,911)36,843
Trading account liabilities
Securities sold, not yet purchased
48,4529,17619957,827Š57,827
Other trading liabilitiesŠ2,093Š2,093Š2,093
Total trading liabilities
$48,452$11,269$199$59,920$Š$59,920
Trading derivatives
˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘
$5$393,321$2,578$395,904
6133,404503133,913
2,24421,8752,39726,516
26317,3292,96120,553

Š30,6823,48634,168
Total trading derivatives
$2,518$596,611$11,925$611,054
Cash collateral received (8)$13,628
Netting agreements$(524,481)
Netting of cash collateral paid(42,609)Total trading derivatives
$2,518$596,611$11,925$624,682$(567,090)$57,592
Short-term borrowings$Š$1,198$9$1,207$Š$1,207
Long-term debtŠ18,3426,95125,293Š25,293
Non-trading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured  
on a recurring basis, gross
$Š$1,626$14$1,640
Cash collateral received (9)37Netting of cash collateral paid$(53)
Total non-trading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured  
on a recurring basis$Š$1,626$14$1,677$(53)$1,624
Total liabilities
$50,970$706,709$20,779$792,123$(608,054)$184,069
Total as a percentage of gross liabilities
 (7)6.5%90.8%2.7%
ˇ˛˝†ˇ
˛˝†
˛˝†˛˝†
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ

ˇ

ˇ˛ˇ−˝˛ˇ
›ˆˆ˝˛ˇ‰ˇ
Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities That Calculate 
Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent)
’
ˇ

ˇ
ˇ
ˇ


ˇ

ˇ
ˇ

256In millions of dollars at December 31, 2014
Level 1(1)Level 2(1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting
(2)Net balanceAssetsFederal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under  
agreements to resell“Œ“““““
Trading non-derivative assets
Trading mortgage-backed securities
”’„’
ŒŒ
ŒŒ
ŒŒ
Total trading mortgage-backed securities
“Œ““““Œ“
U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
“““Œ““Œ“
State and municipalŒŒ
Foreign government
Œ
CorporateŒ
Equity securitiesŒ
Asset-backed securitiesŒŒ
Other trading assetsŒŒ
Total trading non-derivative assets
“““““Œ“
Trading derivatives
˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘
“⁄•“““
Œ

…•⁄

Œ
Total trading derivatives
““““
Cash collateral paid (3)“
Netting agreements“
Netting of cash collateral received (4)(8)Total trading derivatives
““““““
InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities”’„’
“Œ““‘Ł““Œ“
ŒŁŒ
ŒŒ
Total investment mortgage-backed securities
“Œ““•⁄““Œ“
U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
“““…““Œ“
State and municipalŒŒ
Foreign government
…⁄ŁŒ
CorporateŒ
Equity securitiesŒ
Asset-backed securitiesŒŒ
Other debt securitiesŒŒŒ
Non-marketable equity securities (5)ŒŒ
Total investments
“““““Œ“
™˘
257In millions of dollars at December 31, 2014
Level 1(1)Level 2(1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting
(2)Net balanceLoans (6)“Œ““““Œ“
Mortgage servicing rights
ŒŒŒ
Non-trading derivatives and other financial assets measured  
on a recurring basis, gross
“Œ““⁄Ł“
Cash collateral paid (7)Netting of cash collateral received (8)“
Non-trading derivatives and other financial assets measured  
on a recurring basis“Œ““⁄Ł“““
Total assets
““““““
Total as a percentage of gross assets 
(7)
LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits“Œ““•Ł…““Œ“
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under  
agreements to repurchaseŒ
Trading account liabilities
Securities sold, not yet purchased
Œ
Other trading liabilitiesŒŒŒ
ŒŒŒ
Total trading liabilities
“““““Œ“
Trading account derivatives
˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘
“⁄⁄“““
Œ

……‹

Œ
Total trading derivatives
““““
Cash collateral received (8)“
Netting agreements“
Netting of cash collateral paid (3)Total trading derivatives
““““““
Short-term borrowings“Œ““‘••““Œ“
Long-term debtŒŒ
Non-trading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured  
on a recurring basis, gross
“Œ““⁄“
Cash collateral received (9)⁄Netting of cash collateral paid (7)“
Non-trading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured  
on a recurring basis“Œ““⁄“““
Total liabilities
““““““
Total as a percentage of gross liabilities
 (4)
ˇ˛˝†
ˇˇ
˛˝†
ˇˇ
˙˝†˘˛˝†
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ

ˇ

ˇ


ˇ˛ˇ−˝˛ˇ
›ˆˆ˝˛ˇ‰ˇ
Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities That Calculate 
Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent)
’
ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

258The following tables present the changes in the Level 3 fair value category for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. As discussed above, the Company classifies financial instruments as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy when there is reliance on at least one significant unobservable input to the valuation model. In addition to these unobservable inputs, the 
valuation models for Level 3 financial instruments typically also rely on a number of inputs that are readily observable either directly or indirectly. The 
gains and losses presented below include changes in the fair value related to 
both observable and unobservable inputs.The Company often hedges positions with offsetting positions that are classified in a different level. For example, the gains and losses for assets 
and liabilities in the Level 3 category presented in the tables below do not reflect the effect of offsetting losses and gains on hedging instruments that 
have been classified by the Company in the Level 1 and Level 2 categories. In addition, the Company hedges items classified in the Level 3 category with instruments also classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The effects of these hedges are presented gross in the following tables:In millions of dollarsˇ
Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) incl. inTransfers
PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements
Dec. 31, 
2015Unrealized  
gains  
(losses)  
still held (3)Principal transactionsOther
 (1)(2)into Level 3out of Level 3AssetsFederal funds sold and securities 
borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell“
$(147)$Š$279$(2,856)$784$Š$Š$(121)$1,337$(5)
Trading non-derivative assets
Trading mortgage-backed 
securities”’„’
˘
24Š872(1,277)796Š(756)Š744(4)
254Š370(480)1,574Š(3,072)Š1,326(101)
18Š252(157)697Š(733)Š517(7)
Total trading mortgage- 
backed securities“
$296$Š$1,494$(1,914)$3,067$Š$(4,561)$Š$2,587$(112)
U.S. Treasury and federal  
agency securities
“Œ
$Š$Š$2$(1)$1$Š$(1)$Š$1$Š
State and municipalŠŠ67(35)183Š(105)Š351(7)
Foreign government
(10)Š53(100)271Š(169)(54)1976
Corporate111Š186(288)802Š(1,244)(11)376(29)
Equity securities547Š344(371)1,377Š(432)Š3,684464
Asset-backed securities141Š663(282)4,426Š(5,503)Š2,739(174)
Other trading assets180Š968(3,290)2,50451(2,110)(192)2,483(45)
Total trading non-derivative assets
“
$1,265$Š$3,777$(6,281)$12,631$51$(14,125)$(257)$12,418$103
Trading derivatives, net 
(4)˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘
“
$(492)$Š$(124)$15$24$Š$141$152$(495)$553
⁄⁄Ł(245)Š(11)27393Š(381)59620(12)
148Š(126)66496Š(334)(187)(800)41
(753)Š214(28)ŠŠŠ328(1,861)(257)

555Š9611Š(3)427307442
Total trading derivatives, net 
(4)“
$(787)$Š$(38)$141$914$Š$(577)$779$(2,229)
$767
™˘
259In millions of dollarsˇ
Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) incl. inTransfers
PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements
Dec. 31, 
2015Unrealized  
gains  
(losses)  
still held (3)Principal transactionsOther
 (1)(2)into Level 3out of Level 3InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities”’„’
˘
“‘Ł
$Š$29$171$(118)$62$Š$(43)$Š$139$(2)
ŁŠ(1)4Š11Š(18)Š4Š
ŠŠ4(3)ŠŠŠŠ2Š
Total investment mortgage-
backed securities“•⁄
$Š$28$179$(121)$73$Š$(61)$Š$145$(2)
U.S. Treasury and federal  
agency securities
“…
$Š$Š$Š$Š$6$Š$(8)$Š$4$Š
State and municipalŠ(23)834(721)842Š(671)(249)2,1929
Foreign government
…⁄ŁŠ45(5)(270)601Š(519)(270)260(1)
CorporateŠ(7)15(52)144Š(134)(35)603(4)
Equity securitiesŠ(22)12(14)7Š(540)Š124(120)
Asset-backed securitiesŠ(17)45(58)202Š(125)Š59614
Other debt securitiesŒŠŠŠŠ10Š(10)ŠŠŠ
Non-marketable equity securitiesŠ(50)7665Š(58)(304)1,13526
Total investments
“
$Š$(46)$1,156$(1,230)$1,890$Š$(2,126)$(858)$5,059$(78)
Loans“
$Š$(303)$689$(805)$1,190$461$(807)$(1,367)$2,166$24
Mortgage servicing rights
Š110ŠŠŠ214(38)(350)1,781(390)
Other financial assets  measured on a recurring basis⁄ŁŠ100201(66)6208(85)(262)180582
LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits“•Ł…
$Š$10$1$(1)$Š$36$Š$(78)$434$(154)
Federal funds purchased and 
securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase(23)ŠŠŠŠŠ302(121)1,247134
Trading account liabilities

88Š311(231)ŠŠ385(602)199(25)
Short-term borrowings‘••11Š
23(30
)Š1Š(318)9(4)
Long-term debt539Š2,311(3,958)Š3,407Š(1,560)6,951(347)
Other financial liabilities measured on a recurring basis⁄Š(11)10(4)(5)52(12)14(4)
ˇ

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss

Realized gains (losses) from sales of investments
ˇOther revenue
ˇ
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
ˇ˘

ˇ
ˇˇ™
ˇ’
260In millions of dollarsˇ
Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) incl. inTransfers
PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements
Dec. 31, 
2014Unrealized gains (losses) still held (3)Principal transactionsOther
 (1)(2)into Level 3out of Level 3AssetsFederal funds sold and securities 
borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell“““Œ“Ł•“““Œ“Œ“““
Trading non-derivative assets
Trading mortgage- 
backed securities”’„’
˘
Œ
ŁŒŒŒ
ŒŒŒ
Total trading mortgage-backed 
securities“““Œ““““““““
U.S. Treasury and federal agency 
securities“Œ“‘“Œ“Œ“Œ“⁄“Œ““Œ“Œ“Œ
State and municipalŒ‘•ŒŒ
Foreign government
Œ…⁄…ŒŒ
CorporateŒŒŒ
Equity securitiesŁ⁄ŒŒŒ‘‘⁄
Asset-backed securitiesŁ⁄…ŒŒŒ
‘Other trading assetsŒŒ
Total trading non-derivative assets
“““Œ““““““““‘⁄•
Trading derivatives, net 
(4)˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘
“Ł‘‹““Œ““““Œ““““
Œ•⁄Œ⁄⁄Ł
Œ⁄……Œ
ŒŒŒŒ

Œ•Œ
Total trading derivatives, net 
(4)“““Œ““““Œ““““
InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities”’„’˘
““Œ“““““Œ“““‘Ł“
Œ‘‘ŒŒŁŒ
ŒŒ•ŒŒŒŒ
Total investment mortgage-
backed securities““Œ“⁄‹“““••“Œ“““•⁄“
U.S. Treasury and federal  
agency securities
“Ł“Œ“Œ“Œ“Œ“Œ“Œ““Œ“…“Œ
State and municipalŒŒŒ•‹
Foreign government
‘••ŒŒ…⁄Ł
CorporateŒŒŒ
Equity securitiesŒŒŒ
Asset-backed securitiesŒŒŒ
Other debt securitiesŒŒŒŒŒŒ
Non-marketable equity securitiesŒ…⁄ŒŒ
Total investments
““Œ“‘••““““Œ““““
™˘
261In millions of dollarsˇ
Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) incl. inTransfers
PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements
Dec. 31, 
2014Unrealized gains (losses) still held (3)Principal transactionsOther
 (1)(2)into Level 3out of Level 3Loans““Œ“““…““““““‘⁄
Mortgage servicing rights
ŒŒŒŒ
Other financial assets measured on a recurring basisŒŒ‘⁄Ł
LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits““Œ““““Œ““Œ““•Ł…“
Federal funds purchased and 
securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchaseŒŒ⁄ŁŒ
Trading account liabilities
Œ⁄‹ŒŒ
Short-term borrowingsŒŒ•‹Œ‘••
Long-term debt•‹ŒŒ
Other financial liabilities measured on a recurring basisŒ⁄⁄
ˇ

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

Realized gains (losses) from sales of investments
ˇOther revenue
ˇ
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
ˇ˘

ˇ
ˇˇ™
ˇ’
The following were the significant Level 3 transfers for the period 
December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015: Transfers of Federal Funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell of $2.9 billion from Level 3 to Level 2 related to shortening of the remaining tenor of certain reverse repos. There is 
more transparency and observability for repo curves used in the valuation 
of structured reverse repos with tenors up to five years; thus, these 
positions are generally classified as Level 2.  Transfers of U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed MBS in 
Trading account assets of $0.9 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, and 
of $1.3 billion from Level 3 to Level 2 primarily related to changes in 
observability due to market trading activity. Transfers of other trading assets of $1.0 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, 
and of $3.3 billion from Level 3 to Level 2 primarily related to trading 
loans for which there were changes in volume of and transparency into 
market quotations.  Transfers of Long-term debt of $2.3 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, and of $4.0 billion from Level 3 to Level 2, mainly related to structured debt, 
reflecting certain unobservable inputs becoming less significant and 
certain underlying market inputs being more observable. The following were the significant Level 3 transfers for the period 
December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014: Transfers of Long-term debt of $2.7 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, and of $4.2 billion from Level 3 to Level 2, mainly related to structured debt, reflecting changes in the significance of unobservable inputs as well as 
certain underlying market inputs becoming less or more observable. Transfers of other trading assets of $2.6 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, 
and of $2.3 billion from Level 3 to Level 2, related to trading loans, 
reflecting changes in the volume of market quotations.262The Company™s Level 3 inventory consists of both cash securities and 
derivatives of varying complexity. The valuation methodologies used to 
measure the fair value of these positions include discounted cash flow 
analysis, internal models and comparative analysis. A position is classified 
within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy when at least one input is 
unobservable and is considered significant to its valuation. The specific 
reason an input is deemed unobservable varies. For example, at least one 
significant input to the pricing model is not observable in the market, at least one significant input has been adjusted to make it more representative of the 
position being valued, or the price quote available does not reflect sufficient 
trading activities.The following tables present the valuation techniques covering the majority of Level 3 inventory and the most significant unobservable inputs 
used in Level 3 fair value measurements. Differences between this table and 
amounts presented in the Level 3 Fair Value Rollforward table represent 

individually immaterial items that have been measured using a variety of 
valuation techniques other than those listed.As of December 31, 2015
Fair value (1)MethodologyInput
Low (2)(3)High (2)(3)Weighted average (4) (in millions)AssetsFederal funds sold and securities borrowed 
or purchased under agreements to resell$1,337

29.02%137.02%37.90%
˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘˛˝
Š%2.03%0.27
%Mortgage-backed securities$1,287

$3.45$109.21$78.25
1,377œœ
0.5%14.07%4.83%
State and municipal, foreign government, 
corporate and other debt securities$3,761

$Š$217.00$79.41
1,719
20bps600bps251bps
Equity securities (5)$3,499
ž›€
1.5 years1.5 years1.5 years
˛˝
41.21%41.21%41.21%
Asset-backed securities$3,075

$5.55$100.21$71.57
Non-marketable equity$633
š†˝ˆˇ˘˚˘†
6.8x10.8x9.05x
473
Š%90%10.89%

0.19x1.09x0.60x
$Š$132.78$46.66
DerivativesŠgross 
(6)˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘
$4,553

17.41%137.02%37.60%
(5.52)%20.00%0.71
%
$1,326

0.38%25.73%11.63%
275
˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘˛˝
7.50%7.50%7.50%
1.48%138.09%56.80%
3bps515bps235bps

(51.00)%77.94%32.91%

(20.30)%60.00%48.85%

$3,976

11.87%49.57%27.33%

(88.17)%65.00%(21.09)%

82.72%100.53%95.20%

(80.54)%100.00%49.54%
263As of December 31, 2015
Fair value (1)MethodologyInput
Low (2)(3)High (2)(3)Weighted average (4) (in millions)
$4,061

35.09%299.32%112.98%

5.00%83.00%24.00%

(57.00)%91.00%30.00%

$5,849
˛˝
1.00%75.00%32.49%
1,424
5.00%90.00%43.48%
$0.33$101.00$61.52
1bps967bps133 bps
7.00%99.92%66.75%



$194
˛˝
7.00%40.00%10.72%
˛˝
27.00%99.50%74.80%
˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘˛˝
5.26%5.28%5.27%
Loans$750
œ
1.50%4.50%2.52%
892
$Š$106.98$40.69
524
29bps500bps105bps
Mortgage servicing rights
$1,690

œ
Š%23.32%6.83%
ž›€
3.38 years7.48 years
5.5 yearsLiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits$434

23.00%39.00%34.51%
35.09%299.32%112.72%

(57.00)%91.00%30.00%

5.00%83.00%24.00%
Federal funds purchased and securities 
loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase$1,245
˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘˛˝
1.27%2.02%1.92%
Trading account liabilities

$152

$Š$217.00$87.78
Short-term borrowings and long-term debt$7,004

(5.52)%20.00%7.80%

9.55%42.56%22.26%

82.72%100.80%94.48%

(80.54)%100.00%49.16%
35.09%299.32%106.32%

(88.20)%56.85%(31.76)%
264As of December 31, 2014

ˇ(in millions)AssetsFederal funds sold and securities 
borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell“˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘˛˝

ŠMortgage-backed securities“
“Œ““
œœ

ŠState and municipal, foreign government, 
corporate and other debt securities“
“Œ““


Equity securities (5)“
“Œ““
…⁄‹
œ

ž›€

Asset-backed securities“
“Œ““
Non-marketable equity“
ŒŠ
š†˝ˆˇ˘˚˘†




DerivativesŠgross 
(6)˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘
“˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘



Š
“

˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘˛˝



Š
“






‘…’Ł⁄Š
“““

“




Š
“˛˝


ŒŠ
“““


265As of December 31, 2014

ˇ(in millions)


“⁄•˛˝
…Ł’⁄‘Š

Loans“
œ


“““


œ
Mortgage servicing rights
“
œ

ž›€

LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits“•Ł…






Federal funds purchased and securities 
loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase“˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘˛˝

Trading account liabilities

“

“
“Œ““
Short-term borrowings and long-term debt“













ˇ

ˇˇ

ˇž

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ266The impact of key unobservable inputs on the Level 3 fair value measurements may not be independent of one another. In addition, the 
amount and direction of the impact on a fair value measurement for a given 
change in an unobservable input depends on the nature of the instrument as 
well as whether the Company holds the instrument as an asset or a liability. 
For certain instruments, the pricing, hedging and risk management are 
sensitive to the correlation between various inputs rather than on the analysis 
and aggregation of the individual inputs.The following section describes the sensitivities and interrelationships of the most significant unobservable inputs used by the Company in Level 3 fair value measurements.CorrelationCorrelation is a measure of the extent to which two or more variables change 
in relation to each other. A variety of correlation-related assumptions are 
required for a wide range of instruments, including equity and credit baskets, 
foreign-exchange options, CDOs backed by loans or bonds, mortgages, 
subprime mortgages and many other instruments. For almost all of these 
instruments, correlations are not observable in the market and must be 
calculated using historical information. Estimating correlation can be 
especially difficult where it may vary over time. Calculating correlation 
information from market data requires significant assumptions regarding 
the informational efficiency of the market (for example, swaption markets). 
Changes in correlation levels can have a major impact, favorable or 
unfavorable, on the value of an instrument, depending on its nature. A 
change in the default correlation of the fair value of the underlying bonds 
comprising a CDO structure would affect the fair value of the senior tranche. 
For example, an increase in the default correlation of the underlying bonds 
would reduce the fair value of the senior tranche, because highly correlated 
instruments produce larger losses in the event of default and a part of these 
losses would become attributable to the senior tranche. That same change in 
default correlation would have a different impact on junior tranches of the 
same structure.VolatilityVolatility represents the speed and severity of market price changes and is 
a key factor in pricing options. Typically, instruments can become more 
expensive if volatility increases. For example, as an index becomes more 
volatile, the cost to Citi of maintaining a given level of exposure increases 
because more frequent rebalancing of the portfolio is required. Volatility 
generally depends on the tenor of the underlying instrument and the strike 
price or level defined in the contract. Volatilities for certain combinations 
of tenor and strike are not observable. The general relationship between 
changes in the value of a portfolio to changes in volatility also depends on 
changes in interest rates and the level of the underlying index. Generally, 
long option positions (assets) benefit from increases in volatility, whereas short option positions (liabilities) will suffer losses. Some instruments 
are more sensitive to changes in volatility than others. For example, an 
at-the-money option would experience a larger percentage change in its 
fair value than a deep-in-the-money option. In addition, the fair value of 
an option with more than one underlying security (for example, an option 
on a basket of bonds) depends on the volatility of the individual underlying 
securities as well as their correlations.YieldAdjusted yield is generally used to discount the projected future principal and 
interest cash flows on instruments, such as asset-backed securities. Adjusted 
yield is impacted by changes in the interest rate environment and relevant 
credit spreads.In some circumstances, the yield of an instrument is not observable in the market and must be estimated from historical data or from yields of 
similar securities. This estimated yield may need to be adjusted to capture the 
characteristics of the security being valued. In other situations, the estimated 
yield may not represent sufficient market liquidity and must be adjusted as 
well. Whenever the amount of the adjustment is significant to the value of 
the security, the fair value measurement is classified as Level 3.Prepayment
Voluntary unscheduled payments (prepayments) change the future cash 
flows for the investor and thereby change the fair value of the security. The 
effect of prepayments is more pronounced for residential mortgage-backed 
securities. An increase in prepaymentsŠin speed or magnitudeŠgenerally 
creates losses for the holder of these securities. Prepayment is generally 
negatively correlated with delinquency and interest rate. A combination 
of low prepayment and high delinquencies amplify each input™s negative 
impact on mortgage securities™ valuation. As prepayment speeds change, the 
weighted average life of the security changes, which impacts the valuation 
either positively or negatively, depending upon the nature of the security and 
the direction of the change in the weighted average life.RecoveryRecovery is the proportion of the total outstanding balance of a bond or loan 
that is expected to be collected in a liquidation scenario. For many credit 
securities (such as asset-backed securities), there is no directly observable 
market input for recovery, but indications of recovery levels are available 
from pricing services. The assumed recovery of a security may differ from 
its actual recovery that will be observable in the future. The recovery rate 
impacts the valuation of credit securities. Generally, an increase in the 
recovery rate assumption increases the fair value of the security. An increase 
in loss severity, the inverse of the recovery rate, reduces the amount of 
principal available for distribution and, as a result, decreases the fair value of 
the security.267Credit SpreadCredit spread is a component of the security representing its credit quality. 
Credit spread reflects the market perception of changes in prepayment, 
delinquency and recovery rates, therefore capturing the impact of other 
variables on the fair value. Changes in credit spread affect the fair value of 
securities differently depending on the characteristics and maturity profile of 
the security. For example, credit spread is a more significant driver of the fair 
value measurement of a high yield bond as compared to an investment grade 
bond. Generally, the credit spread for an investment grade bond is also more 
observable and less volatile than its high yield counterpart.
The following section describes the ranges of the most significant 
unobservable inputs used by the Company in Level 3 fair value measurements. The level of aggregation and the diversity of instruments held 
by the Company lead to a wide range of unobservable inputs that may not be 
evenly distributed across the Level 3 inventory.Correlation
There are many different types of correlation inputs, including credit 
correlation, cross-asset correlation (such as equity-interest rate correlation), 
and same-asset correlation (such as interest rate-interest rate correlation). 
Correlation inputs are generally used to value hybrid and exotic instruments. 
Generally, same-asset correlation inputs have a narrower range than cross-
asset correlation inputs. However, due to the complex and unique nature 
of these instruments, the ranges for correlation inputs can vary widely 
across portfolios.VolatilitySimilar to correlation, asset-specific volatility inputs vary widely by asset type. 
For example, ranges for foreign exchange volatility are generally lower and 
narrower than equity volatility. Equity volatilities are wider due to the nature 
of the equities market and the terms of certain exotic instruments. For most 
instruments, the interest rate volatility input is on the lower end of the range; 
however, for certain structured or exotic instruments (such as market-linked 
deposits or exotic interest rate derivatives), the range is much wider.YieldRanges for the yield inputs vary significantly depending upon the type of 
security. For example, securities that typically have lower yields, such as 
municipal bonds, will fall on the lower end of the range, while more illiquid 
securities or securities with lower credit quality, such as certain residual 
tranche asset-backed securities, will have much higher yield inputs.Credit Spread
Credit spread is relevant primarily for fixed income and credit instruments; 
however, the ranges for the credit spread input can vary across instruments. 
For example, certain fixed income instruments, such as certificates of deposit, 
typically have lower credit spreads, whereas certain derivative instruments 
with high-risk counterparties are typically subject to higher credit spreads 
when they are uncollateralized or have a longer tenor. Other instruments, 
such as credit default swaps, also have credit spreads that vary with the 
attributes of the underlying obligor. Stronger companies have tighter credit 
spreads, and weaker companies have wider credit spreads.PriceThe price input is a significant unobservable input for certain fixed 
income instruments. For these instruments, the price input is expressed as 
a percentage of the notional amount, with a price of $100 meaning that 
the instrument is valued at par. For most of these instruments, the price 
varies between zero to $100, or slightly above $100. Relatively illiquid assets 
that have experienced significant losses since issuance, such as certain 
asset-backed securities, are at the lower end of the range, whereas most 
investment grade corporate bonds will fall in the middle to the higher end of 
the range. For certain structured debt instruments with embedded derivatives, 
the price input may be above $100 to reflect the embedded features of the 
instrument (for example, a step-up coupon or a conversion option).The price input is also a significant unobservable input for certain equity securities; however, the range of price inputs varies depending on the nature of the position, the number of shares outstanding and other factors.Mean ReversionA number of financial instruments require an estimate of the rate at which 
the interest rate reverts to its long term average. Changes in this estimate can 
significantly affect the fair value of these instruments. However, sometimes 
there is insufficient external market data to calibrate this parameter, 
especially when pricing more complex instruments. The level of mean 
reversion affects the correlation between short and long term interest rates. 
The fair values of more complex instruments, such as Bermudan swaptions 
(options with multiple exercise dates) and constant maturity spread options 
or structured debts with these embedded features, are more sensitive to the 
changes in this correlation as compared to less complex instruments, such as 
caps and floors.268Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis and therefore are not included in the tables above. These include 
assets measured at cost that have been written down to fair value during the 
periods as a result of an impairment. In addition, these assets include loans 
held-for-sale and other real estate owned that are measured at the lower 
of cost or market.The following table presents the carrying amounts of all assets that were still held for which a nonrecurring fair value measurement was recorded:In millions of dollarsFair valueLevel
 2Level 3December 31, 2015‚ˆ˘†˝
$10,326$6,752$3,574

1071592
1,173836337
Total assets at fair value on a  
nonrecurring basis$11,606$7,603$4,003
In millions of dollars
ˇˇ‘‚ˆ˘†˝
“““


•Ł…
Total assets at fair value on a  
nonrecurring basis“““
ˇ

The fair value of loans-held-for-sale is determined where possible using 
quoted secondary-market prices. If no such quoted price exists, the fair value 
of a loan is determined using quoted prices for a similar asset or assets, 
adjusted for the specific attributes of that loan. Fair value for the other real 
estate owned is based on appraisals. For loans whose carrying amount is 
based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, the fair values depend 
on the type of collateral. Fair value of the collateral is typically estimated 
based on quoted market prices if available, appraisals or other internal 
valuation techniques.Where the fair value of the related collateral is based on an unadjusted appraised value, the loan is generally classified as Level 2. Where significant adjustments are made to the appraised value, the loan is classified as Level 3. Additionally, for corporate loans, appraisals of the collateral are often based on sales of similar assets; however, because the prices of similar assets require 

significant adjustments to reflect the unique features of the underlying 
collateral, these fair value measurements are generally classified as Level 3.The following tables present the valuation techniques covering the majority of Level 3 nonrecurring fair value measurements and the most significant unobservable inputs used in those measurements:Fair
 Value
(1)Weighted 
averageAs of December 31, 2015
(In millions of dollars)MethodologyInput
Low (5)High (2)Loans held-for-sale
$3,486

$Š$100.00$81.05
Other real estate owned$90

0.34%13.00%2.86%
2‰
$Š$8,518,230$3,813,045
Loans (3)$157
˛˝
11.79%60.00%23.49%
87
13.00%34.00%7.99%
ˇ

ˇž

ˇ
˛˝˙˘†’
ˇ
ˇ269ˇž
˘
As of December 31, 2014
 (In millions of dollars)
‚ˆ˘†˝
“
“““


“⁄…“““

Loans (3)“•‘⁄

ˇ

ˇž

ˇ
˛˝˙˘†’
ˇ
The following table presents total nonrecurring fair value measurements for the period, included in earnings, attributable to the change in fair value 
relating to assets that were still held:In millions of dollarsYear ended  
December 31, 2015
‚ˆ˘†˝
$(79)

(17)
(142)
Total nonrecurring fair value gains (losses)
$(238)
ˇ

In millions of dollarsœˇ

‚ˆ˘†˝
“‘•

Total nonrecurring fair value gains (losses)
“
ˇ

270The table below presents the carrying value and fair value of Citigroup™s 
financial instruments that are not carried at fair value. The table below 
therefore excludes items measured at fair value on a recurring basis 
presented in the tables above.The disclosure also excludes leases, affiliate investments, pension and benefit obligations and insurance policy claim reserves. In addition, 
contract-holder fund amounts exclude certain insurance contracts. Also, as 
required, the disclosure excludes the effect of taxes, any premium or discount 
that could result from offering for sale at one time the entire holdings of a 
particular instrument, excess fair value associated with deposits with no fixed 
maturity, and other expenses that would be incurred in a market transaction. 

In addition, the table excludes the values of non-financial assets and 
liabilities, as well as a wide range of franchise, relationship and intangible 
values, which are integral to a full assessment of Citigroup™s financial 

position and the value of its net assets.The fair value represents management™s best estimates based on a 
range of methodologies and assumptions. The carrying value of short-term 
financial instruments not accounted for at fair value, as well as receivables 
and payables arising in the ordinary course of business, approximates fair 
value because of the relatively short period of time between their origination 
and expected realization. Quoted market prices are used when available 
for investments and for liabilities, such as long-term debt not carried 
at fair value. For loans not accounted for at fair value, cash flows are 
discounted at quoted secondary market rates or estimated market rates if 
available. Otherwise, sales of comparable loan portfolios or current market 
origination rates for loans with similar terms and risk characteristics are 
used. Expected credit losses are either embedded in the estimated future 
cash flows or incorporated as an adjustment to the discount rate used. The 
value of collateral is also considered. For liabilities such as long-term debt 
not accounted for at fair value and without quoted market prices, market 
borrowing rates of interest are used to discount contractual cash flows.December 31, 2015
Estimated fair value
In billions of dollarsCarrying valueEstimated fair valueLevel
 1Level 2Level 3Assets$41.7$42.7$3.5$36.4$2.8

81.781.7Š77.44.3
597.5595.7Š6.0589.7
186.5186.56.9126.253.4
Liabilities
$906.3
$896.7$Š$749.4$147.3

109.7109.7Š109.40.3
176.0180.8Š153.827.0

97.697.6Š18.079.6


In billions of dollars
ˇˇˇ‘Assets
“““““

‹Ł’•‹Ł’•ŒŁ‹’⁄Ł’⁄
Œ
Ł’‘
Liabilities
“Ł‹⁄’…
“Ł‹•’•“Œ“⁄……’⁄“

Œ
Œ

Œ‹•’Ł
ˇ
Allowance for loan losses

ˇ
ˇ
š†˝ˆˇ˘
ˇˇ’
ˇ
ˇ

Other assets

ˇ
ˇ

Other liabilities


271Fair values vary from period to period based on changes in a wide range of factors, including interest rates, credit quality and market perceptions of value, and as existing assets and liabilities run off and new transactions 
are entered into. The estimated fair values of loans reflect changes in credit 
status since the loans were made, changes in interest rates in the case of 
fixed-rate loans, and premium values at origination of certain loans.The estimated fair values of the Company™s corporate unfunded lending 
commitments at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 were liabilities of $7.0 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively, substantially all of which are classified as Level 3. The Company does not estimate the fair values of consumer unfunded lending commitments, which are generally cancellable 
by providing notice to the borrower.272The Company may elect to report most financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on an instrument-by-instrument basis with 
changes in fair value reported in earnings. The election is made upon the 
initial recognition of an eligible financial asset, financial liability or firm 
commitment or when certain specified reconsideration events occur. The fair 
value election may not be revoked once an election is made. The changes in fair value are recorded in current earnings. Additional discussion regarding 
the applicable areas in which fair value elections were made is presented in 
Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.All servicing rights are recognized initially at fair value. The Company has elected fair value accounting for its mortgage servicing rights. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions regarding the 
accounting and reporting of MSRs.The following table presents the changes in fair value gains and losses associated with those items for which the fair value option was elected:Changes in fair value gains 
(losses) for the years ended December 31,In millions of dollars2015Assets

$(153)
“
™
(305)57
(192)3™
$(189)
“
ı„—ˆ$104
“

331•⁄•™
$435
“
Total assets
$(155)
“
Liabilities$(94)
“


3™
(60)(59)Ł343Total liabilities
$133
“
ˇ
ˇ
Consolidation
›„
ˇ
ˇˇ

273Own debt valuation adjustments are recognized on Citi™s liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected using Citi™s credit spreads 
observed in the bond market. The fair value of liabilities for which the fair 
value option is elected (other than non-recourse and similar liabilities) is 
impacted by the narrowing or widening of the Company™s credit spreads. The 
estimated change in the fair value of these liabilities due to such changes 
in the Company™s own credit risk (or instrument-specific credit risk) was 
a gain of $367 million and $218 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Changes in fair value resulting from changes 
in instrument-specific credit risk were estimated by incorporating the 
Company™s current credit spreads observable in the bond market into the 
relevant valuation technique used to value each liability as described above.
Selected Portfolios of Securities Purchased Under 
Agreements to Resell, Securities Borrowed, Securities Sold 
Under Agreements to Repurchase, Securities Loaned and 
Certain Non-Collateralized Short-Term Borrowings
The Company elected the fair value option for certain portfolios of fixed-
income securities purchased under agreements to resell and fixed-income 
securities sold under agreements to repurchase, securities borrowed, securities 
loaned, and certain non-collateralized short-term borrowings held primarily 
by broker-dealer entities in the United States, United Kingdom and Japan. 
In each case, the election was made because the related interest-rate risk is 
managed on a portfolio basis, primarily with derivative instruments that are 
accounted for at fair value through earnings.Changes in fair value for transactions in these portfolios are recorded in Principal transactions. The related interest revenue and interest expense are 
measured based on the contractual rates specified in the transactions and 
are reported as interest revenue and expense in the Consolidated Statement 
of Income.Certain Loans and Other Credit ProductsCitigroup has elected the fair value option for certain originated and 
purchased loans, including certain unfunded loan products, such as 
guarantees and letters of credit, executed by Citigroup™s lending and trading 
businesses. None of these credit products are highly leveraged financing 
commitments. Significant groups of transactions include loans and 
unfunded loan products that are expected to be either sold or securitized in 
the near term, or transactions where the economic risks are hedged with 
derivative instruments, such as purchased credit default swaps or total return 
swaps where the Company pays the total return on the underlying loans to a 
third party. Citigroup has elected the fair value option to mitigate accounting 
mismatches in cases where hedge accounting is complex and to achieve 
operational simplifications. Fair value was not elected for most lending 
transactions across the Company.The following table provides information about certain credit products carried at fair value:December 31, 2015

In millions of dollarsTrading assetsLoans
™

$9,314$5,005
““

980280

ˇ52
‘

ˇ131

In addition to the amounts reported above, $2,113 million and $2,335 million of unfunded commitments related to certain credit products 
selected for fair value accounting were outstanding as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.Changes in the fair value of funded and unfunded credit products are classified in Principal transactions in the Company™s Consolidated 

Statement of Income. Related interest revenue is measured based on the 
contractual interest rates and reported as Interest revenue on Trading 

account assets or loan interest depending on the balance sheet classifications 
of the credit products. The changes in fair value for the years ended 
December 31, 2015 and 2014 due to instrument-specific credit risk totaled to a loss of $221 million and $155 million, respectively.274Certain Investments in Unallocated Precious MetalsCitigroup invests in unallocated precious metals accounts (gold, silver, 
platinum and palladium) as part of its commodity and foreign currency 
trading activities or to economically hedge certain exposures from issuing 
structured liabilities. Under ASC 815, the investment is bifurcated into a debt 
host contract and a commodity forward derivative instrument. Citigroup 
elects the fair value option for the debt host contract, and reports the debt 
host contract within Trading account assets on the Company™s Consolidated 
Balance Sheet. The total carrying amount of debt host contracts across 
unallocated precious metals accounts was approximately $0.6 billion and 
$1.2 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The amounts are expected to fluctuate based on trading activity in future periods.As part of its commodity and foreign currency trading activities, Citi sells (buys) unallocated precious metals investments and executes forward 
purchase (sale) derivative contracts with trading counterparties. When 
Citi sells an unallocated precious metals investment, Citi™s receivable from its depository bank is repaid and Citi derecognizes its investment in the 
unallocated precious metal. The forward purchase (sale) contract with the 
trading counterparty indexed to unallocated precious metals is accounted 
for as a derivative, at fair value through earnings. As of December 31, 2015, there were approximately $10.6 billion and $9.2 billion notional 
amounts of such forward purchase and forward sale derivative contracts 
outstanding, respectively.Certain Investments in Private Equity and Real Estate 
Ventures and Certain Equity Method and Other Investments
Citigroup invests in private equity and real estate ventures for the purpose 
of earning investment returns and for capital appreciation. The Company 
has elected the fair value option for certain of these ventures, because such 
investments are considered similar to many private equity or hedge fund 
activities in Citi™s investment companies, which are reported at fair value. 
The fair value option brings consistency in the accounting and evaluation of 
these investments. All investments (debt and equity) in such private equity 
and real estate entities are accounted for at fair value. These investments are 
classified as Investments on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet.Changes in the fair values of these investments are classified in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income.
Citigroup also elects the fair value option for certain non-marketable equity securities whose risk is managed with derivative instruments that are 
accounted for at fair value through earnings. These securities are classified as 
Trading account assets
 on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Changes 

in the fair value of these securities and the related derivative instruments are 
recorded in Principal transactions.Certain Mortgage Loans HFSCitigroup has elected the fair value option for certain purchased and 
originated prime fixed-rate and conforming adjustable-rate first mortgage 
loans HFS. These loans are intended for sale or securitization and are hedged 
with derivative instruments. The Company has elected the fair value option 
to mitigate accounting mismatches in cases where hedge accounting is 
complex and to achieve operational simplifications.The following table provides information about certain mortgage loans HFS carried at fair value:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2015


$745
20…⁄ˇŠŒ
ˇŠŒThe changes in the fair values of these mortgage loans are reported in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income. There 

was no net change in fair value during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 due to instrument-specific credit risk. Related interest income 
continues to be measured based on the contractual interest rates and reported 
as Interest revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income.275Certain Structured LiabilitiesThe Company has elected the fair value option for certain structured 
liabilities whose performance is linked to structured interest rates, inflation, 
currency, equity, referenced credit or commodity risks. The Company 
elected the fair value option, because these exposures are considered to be 
trading-related positions and, therefore, are managed on a fair value basis. 
These positions will continue to be classified as debt, deposits or derivatives 
(Trading account liabilities) on the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet 
according to their legal form.The following table provides information about the carrying value of structured notes, disaggregated by type of embedded derivative instrument:In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2015

˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˛ˇ˙˘
$9.6
“
0.39.91.41.6Total
$22.8
“
The change in the fair value of these structured liabilities is reported in Principal transactions in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income. 
Changes in the fair value of these structured liabilities include an economic 
component for accrued interest, which is included in the change in fair value 
reported in Principal transactions.Certain Non-Structured Liabilities
The Company has elected the fair value option for certain non-structured 
liabilities with fixed and floating interest rates. The Company has elected 
the fair value option where the interest-rate risk of such liabilities is 
economically hedged with derivative contracts or the proceeds are used 
to purchase financial assets that will also be accounted for at fair value 
through earnings. The election has been made to mitigate accounting 
mismatches and to achieve operational simplifications. These positions are 
reported in Short-term borrowings and Long-term debt on the Company™s 
Consolidated Balance Sheet. The change in the fair value of these non-
structured liabilities is reported in Principal transactions in the Company™s 
Consolidated Statement of Income. Related interest expense on non-
structured liabilities is measured based on the contractual interest rates and 
reported as Interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.The following table provides information about long-term debt carried at fair value:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2015


$25,293
“

1,569The following table provides information about short-term borrowings carried at fair value:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2015


$1,207
“

130276In connection with the Company™s financing and trading activities, the Company has pledged assets to collateralize its obligations under repurchase 
agreements, secured financing agreements, secured liabilities of consolidated 
VIEs and other borrowings. The approximate carrying values of the 
significant components of pledged assets recognized on the Company™s 
Consolidated Balance Sheet included:In millions of dollars2015˜˚˛˝$210,604

203,568
97,205Total
$511,377

In addition, included in Cash and due from banks at December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $5.0 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively, of cash 

segregated under federal and other brokerage regulations or deposited with 
clearing organizations.At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the approximate fair value of collateral received by the Company that may be resold or repledged, excluding 
the impact of allowable netting, was $347.5 billion and $346.7 billion, 
respectively. This collateral was received in connection with resale 
agreements, securities borrowings and loans, derivative transactions and 
margined broker loans.At December 31, 2015 and 2014, a substantial portion of the collateral received by the Company had been sold or repledged in connection with 
repurchase agreements, securities sold, not yet purchased, securities 
borrowings and loans, pledges to clearing organizations, segregation 
requirements under securities laws and regulations, derivative transactions 
and bank loans.In addition, at December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had pledged $405 billion and $378 billion, respectively, of collateral that may not be sold or repledged by the secured parties.Rental expense (principally for offices and computer equipment) was 
$1.3 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.Future minimum annual rentals under noncancellable leases, net of sublease income, are as follows:In millions of dollars
˜˚˜˚Total

Citi provides a variety of guarantees and indemnifications to its customers 
to enhance their credit standing and enable them to complete a wide variety 
of business transactions. For certain contracts meeting the definition of a 
guarantee, the guarantor must recognize, at inception, a liability for the fair 
value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee.In addition, the guarantor must disclose the maximum potential amount of future payments that the guarantor could be required to make under 
the guarantee, if there were a total default by the guaranteed parties. The 
determination of the maximum potential future payments is based on 
the notional amount of the guarantees without consideration of possible 
recoveries under recourse provisions or from collateral held or pledged. As 
such, Citi believes such amounts bear no relationship to the anticipated 
losses, if any, on these guarantees.
The following tables present information about Citi™s guarantees:
Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars at December 31, 2015 except carrying value in millions
Expire within 1 yearExpire after 1 yearTotal amount 
outstandingCarrying value 
(in millions of dollars)
$23.8$73.0$96.8
$153

7.44.111.524
3.674.9
78.51,779Š0.20.217
79.0Š79.0Š84.2Š84.2Š
Š51.7
51.756Total
$198.0$203.9$401.9
$2,029
277Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars at December 31, 2014 except carrying value in millions
Expire within 1 yearExpire after 1 yearTotal amount 
outstandingCarrying value
(in millions of dollars)

˜˝˜



⁄˚ƒ˜˚ƒ˜
⁄⁄⁄⁄
⁄
Total


‡˛…
Financial Standby Letters of Credit
Citi issues standby letters of credit, which substitute its own credit for that 
of the borrower. If a letter of credit is drawn down, the borrower is obligated 
to repay Citi. Standby letters of credit protect a third party from defaults 
on contractual obligations. Financial standby letters of credit include 
(i) guarantees of payment of insurance premiums and reinsurance risks that support industrial revenue bond underwriting; (ii) settlement of payment obligations to clearing houses, including futures and over-the-
counter derivatives clearing (see further discussion below); (iii) support options and purchases of securities in lieu of escrow deposit accounts; and 
(iv) letters of credit that backstop loans, credit facilities, promissory notes and trade acceptances.Performance GuaranteesPerformance guarantees and letters of credit are issued to guarantee a 
customer™s tender bid on a construction or systems-installation project or to 
guarantee completion of such projects in accordance with contract terms. 
They are also issued to support a customer™s obligation to supply specified 
products, commodities, or maintenance or warranty services to a third party.Derivative Instruments Considered to Be GuaranteesDerivatives are financial instruments whose cash flows are based on a 
notional amount and an underlying instrument, reference credit or index, 
where there is little or no initial investment, and whose terms require or 
permit net settlement. For a discussion of Citi™s derivatives activities, see 
Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Derivative instruments considered to be guarantees include only those instruments that require Citi to make payments to the counterparty based on 
changes in an underlying instrument that is related to an asset, a liability or 
an equity security held by the guaranteed party. More specifically, derivative 
instruments considered to be guarantees include certain over-the-counter 

written put options where the counterparty is not a bank, hedge fund or broker-dealer (such counterparties are considered to be dealers in these 

markets and may, therefore, not hold the underlying instruments). Credit 

derivatives sold by Citi are excluded from the tables above as they are 
disclosed separately in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In instances where Citi™s maximum potential future payment is unlimited, the notional amount of the contract is disclosed.Loans Sold with RecourseLoans sold with recourse represent Citi™s obligations to reimburse the buyers 
for loan losses under certain circumstances. Recourse refers to the clause 
in a sales agreement under which a seller/lender will fully reimburse the 
buyer/investor for any losses resulting from the purchased loans. This may be 
accomplished by the seller taking back any loans that become delinquent.In addition to the amounts shown in the tables above, Citi has recorded a repurchase reserve for its potential repurchases or make-whole liability 
regarding residential mortgage representation and warranty claims related 
to its whole loan sales to the U.S. government-sponsored enterprises 
(GSEs) and, to a lesser extent, private investors. The repurchase reserve was 
approximately $152 million and $224 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and these amounts are included in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.Securities Lending IndemnificationsOwners of securities frequently lend those securities for a fee to other parties 
who may sell them short or deliver them to another party to satisfy some 
other obligation. Banks may administer such securities lending programs for 
their clients. Securities lending indemnifications are issued by the bank to 
guarantee that a securities lending customer will be made whole in the event 
that the security borrower does not return the security subject to the lending 
agreement and collateral held is insufficient to cover the market value of 
the security.278Credit Card Merchant ProcessingCredit card merchant processing guarantees represent the Company™s indirect 
obligations in connection with: (i) providing transaction processing services to various merchants with respect to its private-label cards; and (ii) potential liability for bank card transaction processing services. The nature of the 
liability in either case arises as a result of a billing dispute between a 
merchant and a cardholder that is ultimately resolved in the cardholder™s 
favor. The merchant is liable to refund the amount to the cardholder. In 
general, if the credit card processing company is unable to collect this 
amount from the merchant, the credit card processing company bears the 
loss for the amount of the credit or refund paid to the cardholder.With regard to (i) above, Citi has the primary contingent liability with respect to its portfolio of private-label merchants. The risk of loss is mitigated 
as the cash flows between Citi and the merchant are settled on a net basis, 
and Citi has the right to offset any payments with cash flows otherwise due to 
the merchant. To further mitigate this risk, Citi may delay settlement, require a merchant to make an escrow deposit, include event triggers to provide Citi 
with more financial and operational control in the event of the financial 
deterioration of the merchant or require various credit enhancements 
(including letters of credit and bank guarantees). In the unlikely event 
that a private-label merchant is unable to deliver products, services or a 
refund to its private-label cardholders, Citi is contingently liable to credit or 
refund cardholders.With regard to (ii) above, Citi has a potential liability for bank card transactions where Citi provides the transaction processing services as well 
as those where a third party provides the services and Citi acts as a secondary 
guarantor, should that processor fail to perform.Citi™s maximum potential contingent liability related to both bank card 
and private-label merchant processing services is estimated to be the total 
volume of credit card transactions that meet the requirements to be valid 
charge-back transactions at any given time. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, this maximum potential exposure was estimated to be $84 billion and 
$86 billion, respectively.However, Citi believes that the maximum exposure is not representative 
of the actual potential loss exposure based on its historical experience. 
This contingent liability is unlikely to arise, as most products and services 
are delivered when purchased and amounts are refunded when items are 
returned to merchants. Citi assesses the probability and amount of its 
contingent liability related to merchant processing based on the financial 
strength of the primary guarantor, the extent and nature of unresolved 

charge-backs and its historical loss experience. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the losses incurred and the carrying amounts of Citi™s contingent obligations related to merchant processing activities were immaterial.Custody Indemnifications
Custody indemnifications are issued to guarantee that custody clients will 
be made whole in the event that a third-party subcustodian or depository 
institution fails to safeguard clients™ assets.Other Guarantees and IndemnificationsCredit Card Protection ProgramsCiti, through its credit card businesses, provides various cardholder protection 
programs on several of its card products, including programs that provide 
insurance coverage for rental cars, coverage for certain losses associated with 
purchased products, price protection for certain purchases and protection for 
lost luggage. These guarantees are not included in the table, since the total 
outstanding amount of the guarantees and Citi™s maximum exposure to loss 
cannot be quantified. The protection is limited to certain types of purchases 
and losses, and it is not possible to quantify the purchases that would qualify 
for these benefits at any given time. Citi assesses the probability and amount 
of its potential liability related to these programs based on the extent and 
nature of its historical loss experience. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the actual and estimated losses incurred and the carrying value of Citi™s 
obligations related to these programs were immaterial.Other Representation and Warranty IndemnificationsIn the normal course of business, Citi provides standard representations 
and warranties to counterparties in contracts in connection with numerous 
transactions and also provides indemnifications, including indemnifications 
that protect the counterparties to the contracts in the event that additional 
taxes are owed, due either to a change in the tax law or an adverse 
interpretation of the tax law. Counterparties to these transactions provide Citi 
with comparable indemnifications. While such representations, warranties 
and indemnifications are essential components of many contractual 
relationships, they do not represent the underlying business purpose for the 
transactions. The indemnification clauses are often standard contractual 
terms related to Citi™s own performance under the terms of a contract and 
are entered into in the normal course of business based on an assessment 
that the risk of loss is remote. Often these clauses are intended to ensure 
that terms of a contract are met at inception. No compensation is received 
for these standard representations and warranties, and it is not possible to 
determine their fair value because they rarely, if ever, result in a payment. 
In many cases, there are no stated or notional amounts included in the 
indemnification clauses, and the contingencies potentially triggering the 
obligation to indemnify have not occurred and are not expected to occur. As a 
result, these indemnifications are not included in the tables above.279Value-Transfer NetworksCiti is a member of, or shareholder in, hundreds of value-transfer networks 
(VTNs) (payment, clearing and settlement systems as well as exchanges) 
around the world. As a condition of membership, many of these VTNs require 
that members stand ready to pay a pro rata share of the losses incurred by 
the organization due to another member™s default on its obligations. Citi™s 
potential obligations may be limited to its membership interests in the VTNs, 
contributions to the VTN™s funds, or, in limited cases, the obligation may 
be unlimited. The maximum exposure cannot be estimated as this would 
require an assessment of future claims that have not yet occurred. Citi 
believes the risk of loss is remote given historical experience with the VTNs. 
Accordingly, Citi™s participation in VTNs is not reported in the guarantees 
tables above, and there are no amounts reflected on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet as of December 31, 2015 or 2014 for potential obligations that could arise from Citi™s involvement with VTN associations.Long-Term Care Insurance IndemnificationIn the sale of an insurance subsidiary, the Company provided an 
indemnification to an insurance company for policyholder claims and 
other liabilities relating to a book of long-term care (LTC) business (for the 
entire term of the LTC policies) that is fully reinsured by another insurance 
company. The reinsurer has funded two trusts with securities whose fair 
value (approximately $6.3 billion at December 31, 2015, compared to $6.2 billion at December 31, 2014) is designed to cover the insurance company™s statutory liabilities for the LTC policies. The assets in these trusts 
are evaluated and adjusted periodically to ensure that the fair value of the 
assets continues to cover the estimated statutory liabilities related to the LTC 
policies, as those statutory liabilities change over time. If the reinsurer fails to perform under the reinsurance agreement for any reason, including insolvency, and the assets in the two trusts are insufficient or unavailable to the ceding insurance company, then Citi must indemnify 

the ceding insurance company for any losses actually incurred in connection 
with the LTC policies. Since both events would have to occur before Citi 

would become responsible for any payment to the ceding insurance company 
pursuant to its indemnification obligation, and the likelihood of such events 
occurring is currently not probable, there is no liability reflected in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 related to this indemnification. Citi continues to closely monitor its potential exposure 
under this indemnification obligation.Futures and Over-the-Counter Derivatives Clearing
Citi provides clearing services for clients executing exchange-traded 
futures and over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives contracts with central 
counterparties (CCPs). Based on all relevant facts and circumstances, 
Citi has concluded that it acts as an agent for accounting purposes in its 
role as clearing member for these client transactions. As such, Citi does 
not reflect the underlying exchange-traded futures or OTC derivatives 
contracts in its Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 23 for a discussion of Citi™s derivatives activities that are reflected in its Consolidated 
Financial Statements.As a clearing member, Citi collects and remits cash and securities collateral (margin) between its clients and the respective CCP. There are two 

types of margin: initial margin and variation margin. Where Citi obtains 
benefits from or controls cash initial margin (e.g., retains an interest spread), cash initial margin collected from clients and remitted to the 
CCP is reflected within Brokerage Payables (payables to customers) and Brokerage Receivables (receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing 
organizations), respectively. However, for OTC derivatives contracts where 

Citi has contractually agreed with the client that (i) Citi will pass through to the client all interest paid by the CCP on cash initial margin; (ii) Citi will not utilize its right as clearing member to transform cash margin into other 
assets; and (iii) Citi does not guarantee and is not liable to the client for the performance of the CCP, cash initial margin collected from clients and remitted to the CCP is not reflected on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The 

total amount of cash initial margin collected and remitted in this manner 
was approximately $4.3 billion and $3.2 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.Variation margin due from clients to the respective CCP, or from the CCP 
to clients, reflects changes in the value of the client™s derivative contracts 

for each trading day. As a clearing member, Citi is exposed to the risk 

of non-performance by clients (e.g., failure of a client to post variation margin to the CCP for negative changes in the value of the client™s derivative contracts). In the event of non-performance by a client, Citi would move 
to close out the client™s positions. The CCP would typically utilize initial 

margin posted by the client and held by the CCP, with any remaining 

shortfalls required to be paid by Citi as clearing member. Citi generally holds 

incremental cash or securities margin posted by the client, which would 
typically be expected to be sufficient to mitigate Citi™s credit risk in the event 

the client fails to perform.As required by ASC 860-30-25-5, securities collateral posted by clients is not recognized on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
280Carrying ValueŠGuarantees and IndemnificationsAt December 31, 2015 and 2014, the total carrying amounts of the liabilities related to the guarantees and indemnifications included in the tables above 
amounted to approximately $2.0 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively. The 
carrying value of financial and performance guarantees is included in Other liabilities, as is the carrying value of the liability for loans sold with recourse.Collateral
Cash collateral available to Citi to reimburse losses realized under these 
guarantees and indemnifications amounted to $52 billion and $63 billion at 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Securities and other marketable assets held as collateral amounted to $33 billion and $59 billion at 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The majority of collateral is held to reimburse losses realized under securities lending indemnifications. 
Additionally, letters of credit in favor of Citi held as collateral amounted to 
$4.2 billion and $4.0 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Other property may also be available to Citi to cover losses under certain 
guarantees and indemnifications; however, the value of such property has 
not been determined.Performance risk
Citi evaluates the performance risk of its guarantees based on the assigned 
referenced counterparty internal or external ratings. Where external ratings 
are used, investment-grade ratings are considered to be Baa/BBB and above, 
while anything below is considered non-investment grade. Citi™s internal 
ratings are in line with the related external rating system. On certain 
underlying referenced assets or entities, ratings are not available. Such 
referenced assets are included in the ﬁnot ratedﬂ category. The maximum 
potential amount of the future payments related to the outstanding 
guarantees is determined to be the notional amount of these contracts, which 
is the par amount of the assets guaranteed.Presented in the tables below are the maximum potential amounts of future payments that are classified based upon internal and external credit 
ratings. As previously mentioned, the determination of the maximum 
potential future payments is based on the notional amount of the guarantees 
without consideration of possible recoveries under recourse provisions or 
from collateral held or pledged. As such, Citi believes such amounts bear no 
relationship to the anticipated losses, if any, on these guarantees.Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars at December 31, 2015
Investment gradeNon-investment gradeNot ratedTotal

$69.2
$15.4$12.2$96.8

6.64.10.811.5

ŠŠ78.578.5
ŠŠ0.20.2

ŠŠ79.079.0
ŠŠ84.284.2

51.60.1Š51.7
Total
$127.4
$19.6$254.9$401.9

In billions of dollars at December 31, 2014









⁄⁄
⁄⁄˚ƒ˜˚ƒ˜

⁄⁄
⁄⁄

˚ƒ˛⁄
Total


281The table below summarizes Citigroup™s credit commitments:In millions of dollarsU.S.Outside of U.S.December 31,2015˜˚˛˝$1,248$4,854$6,102


1,3431,853
3,196
12,6482,07814,726

9,1771,34510,522
481,89791,160573,057
178,95792,119271,076
3,9436,039
9,982Total
$689,213$199,448$888,661

The majority of unused commitments are contingent upon customers™ maintaining specific credit standards. Commercial commitments generally have floating interest rates and fixed expiration dates and may require 
payment of fees. Such fees (net of certain direct costs) are deferred and, upon 
exercise of the commitment, amortized over the life of the loan or, if exercise 

is deemed remote, amortized over the commitment period.Commercial and similar letters of creditA commercial letter of credit is an instrument by which Citigroup substitutes 
its credit for that of a customer to enable the customer to finance the 
purchase of goods or to incur other commitments. Citigroup issues a letter 
on behalf of its client to a supplier and agrees to pay the supplier upon 
presentation of documentary evidence that the supplier has performed in 
accordance with the terms of the letter of credit. When a letter of credit is 
drawn, the customer is then required to reimburse Citigroup.One- to four-family residential mortgagesA one- to four-family residential mortgage commitment is a written 
confirmation from Citigroup to a seller of a property that the bank will 
advance the specified sums enabling the buyer to complete the purchase.Revolving open-end loans secured by one- to four-family residential properties
Revolving open-end loans secured by one- to four-family residential 
properties are essentially home equity lines of credit. A home equity line 
of credit is a loan secured by a primary residence or second home to the 
extent of the excess of fair market value over the debt outstanding for the 
first mortgage.Commercial real estate, construction and land development
Commercial real estate, construction and land development include 
unused portions of commitments to extend credit for the purpose of 
financing commercial and multifamily residential properties as well as land 
development projects.Both secured-by-real-estate and unsecured commitments are included in this line, as well as undistributed loan proceeds, where there is an obligation 
to advance for construction progress payments. However, this line only 

includes those extensions of credit that, once funded, will be classified as 
Total loans, net
 on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.Credit card linesCitigroup provides credit to customers by issuing credit cards. The credit card 
lines are cancellable by providing notice to the cardholder or without such 
notice as permitted by local law.Commercial and other consumer loan commitmentsCommercial and other consumer loan commitments include overdraft and 
liquidity facilities, as well as commercial commitments to make or purchase 
loans, to purchase third-party receivables, to provide note issuance or 
revolving underwriting facilities and to invest in the form of equity.In addition, included in this line item are highly leveraged financing commitments, which are agreements that provide funding to a borrower with 
higher levels of debt (measured by the ratio of debt capital to equity capital 
of the borrower) than is generally considered normal for other companies. 
This type of financing is commonly employed in corporate acquisitions, 
management buy-outs and similar transactions.Other commitments and contingenciesOther commitments and contingencies include committed or unsettled 
regular-way reverse repurchase agreements and all other transactions related 
to commitments and contingencies not reported on the lines above.282ASC 450 governs the disclosure and recognition of loss contingencies, including potential losses from litigation and regulatory matters. ASC 450 
defines a ﬁloss contingencyﬂ as ﬁan existing condition, situation, or set of 
circumstances involving uncertainty as to possible loss to an entity that 
will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to 
occur.ﬂ It imposes different requirements for the recognition and disclosure 
of loss contingencies based on the likelihood of occurrence of the contingent 
future event or events. It distinguishes among degrees of likelihood using the 
following three terms: ﬁprobable,ﬂ meaning that ﬁthe future event or events 
are likely to occurﬂ; ﬁremote,ﬂ meaning that ﬁthe chance of the future event 
or events occurring is slightﬂ; and ﬁreasonably possible,ﬂ meaning that ﬁthe 
chance of the future event or events occurring is more than remote but less 
than likely.ﬂ These three terms are used below as defined in ASC 450.Accruals. ASC 450 requires accrual for a loss contingency when it is ﬁprobable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact 
of lossﬂ and ﬁthe amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.ﬂ In 
accordance with ASC 450, Citigroup establishes accruals for contingencies, 
including the litigation and regulatory matters disclosed herein, when 
Citigroup believes it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the 
amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. When the reasonable 
estimate of the loss is within a range of amounts, the minimum amount 
of the range is accrued, unless some higher amount within the range is a 
better estimate than any other amount within the range. Once established, 
accruals are adjusted from time to time, as appropriate, in light of additional 
information. The amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those 
matters may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts accrued for 
those matters.Disclosure. ASC 450 requires disclosure of a loss contingency if ﬁthere is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss or an additional loss may have 
been incurredﬂ and there is no accrual for the loss because the conditions 
described above are not met or an exposure to loss exists in excess of the 
amount accrued. In accordance with ASC 450, if Citigroup has not accrued 
for a matter because Citigroup believes that a loss is reasonably possible but 
not probable, or that a loss is probable but not reasonably estimable, and 
the matter thus does not meet the criteria for accrual, and the reasonably 
possible loss is material, it discloses the loss contingency. In addition, 

Citigroup discloses matters for which it has accrued if it believes a reasonably 
possible exposure to material loss exists in excess of the amount accrued. 
In accordance with ASC 450, Citigroup™s disclosure includes an estimate of 

the reasonably possible loss or range of loss for those matters as to which an 
estimate can be made. ASC 450 does not require disclosure of an estimate 
of the reasonably possible loss or range of loss where an estimate cannot 
be made. Neither accrual nor disclosure is required for losses that are 
deemed remote.Overview. In addition to the matters described below, in the ordinary 
course of business, Citigroup, its affiliates and subsidiaries, and current 
and former officers, directors and employees (for purposes of this section, 
sometimes collectively referred to as Citigroup and Related Parties) routinely 
are named as defendants in, or as parties to, various legal actions and 
proceedings. Certain of these actions and proceedings assert claims or seek 
relief in connection with alleged violations of consumer protection, fair 
lending, securities, banking, antifraud, antitrust, anti-money laundering, 
employment and other statutory and common laws. Certain of these actual 
or threatened legal actions and proceedings include claims for substantial 
or indeterminate compensatory or punitive damages, or for injunctive relief, 
and in some instances seek recovery on a class-wide basis.In the ordinary course of business, Citigroup and Related Parties also are subject to governmental and regulatory examinations, information-
gathering requests, investigations and proceedings (both formal and 
informal), certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, 
fines, penalties, restitution, disgorgement, injunctions or other relief. In 
addition, certain affiliates and subsidiaries of Citigroup are banks, registered 
broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, investment advisers or 

other regulated entities and, in those capacities, are subject to regulation 
by various U.S., state and foreign securities, banking, commodity futures, 
consumer protection and other regulators. In connection with formal and 
informal inquiries by these regulators, Citigroup and such affiliates and 
subsidiaries receive numerous requests, subpoenas and orders seeking 
documents, testimony and other information in connection with various 
aspects of their regulated activities. From time to time Citigroup and Related 
Parties also receive grand jury subpoenas and other requests for information 
or assistance, formal or informal, from federal or state law enforcement 
agencies including, among others, various United States Attorneys™ Offices, 
the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section and other divisions of 
the Department of Justice, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of 
the United States Department of the Treasury, and the Federal Bureau of 

Investigation relating to Citigroup and its customers.Because of the global scope of Citigroup™s operations, and its presence 
in countries around the world, Citigroup and Related Parties are subject to 
litigation and governmental and regulatory examinations, information-
gathering requests, investigations and proceedings (both formal and 
informal) in multiple jurisdictions with legal and regulatory regimes that 
may differ substantially, and present substantially different risks, from those 

Citigroup and Related Parties are subject to in the United States. In some 
instances Citigroup and Related Parties may be involved in proceedings 
involving the same subject matter in multiple jurisdictions, which may result 
in overlapping, cumulative or inconsistent outcomes.Citigroup seeks to resolve all litigation and regulatory matters in the manner management believes is in the best interests of Citigroup and its 
shareholders, and contests liability, allegations of wrongdoing and, where 

applicable, the amount of damages or scope of any penalties or other relief 
sought as appropriate in each pending matter.
283Inherent Uncertainty of the Matters Disclosed. Certain of the matters disclosed below involve claims for substantial or indeterminate damages. The claims asserted in these matters typically are broad, often spanning a 
multi-year period and sometimes a wide range of business activities, and 
the plaintiffs™ or claimants™ alleged damages frequently are not quantified 
or factually supported in the complaint or statement of claim. Other matters 
relate to regulatory investigations or proceedings, as to which there may 
be no objective basis for quantifying the range of potential fine, penalty, or 

other remedy. As a result, Citigroup is often unable to estimate the loss in 

such matters, even if it believes that a loss is probable or reasonably possible, 
until developments in the case or investigation have yielded additional 
information sufficient to support a quantitative assessment of the range 
of reasonably possible loss. Such developments may include, among other 
things, discovery from adverse parties or third parties, rulings by the court 
on key issues, analysis by retained experts, and engagement in settlement 
negotiations. Depending on a range of factors, such as the complexity of 
the facts, the novelty of the legal theories, the pace of discovery, the court™s 

scheduling order, the timing of court decisions, and the adverse party™s 

willingness to negotiate in good faith toward a resolution, it may be months 
or years after the filing of a case or commencement of an investigation before 
an estimate of the range of reasonably possible loss can be made.Matters as to Which an Estimate Can Be Made. For some of the matters disclosed below, Citigroup is currently able to estimate a reasonably possible 

loss or range of loss in excess of amounts accrued (if any). For some of the 
matters included within this estimation, an accrual has been made because 
a loss is believed to be both probable and reasonably estimable, but an 
exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued. In these cases, the 
estimate reflects the reasonably possible range of loss in excess of the accrued 
amount. For other matters included within this estimation, no accrual has 
been made because a loss, although estimable, is believed to be reasonably 
possible, but not probable; in these cases the estimate reflects the reasonably 
possible loss or range of loss. As of December 31, 2015, Citigroup estimates 
that the reasonably possible unaccrued loss for these matters ranges up to 
approximately $3.5 billion in the aggregate.These estimates are based on currently available information. As available information changes, the matters for which Citigroup is able to estimate will 
change, and the estimates themselves will change. In addition, while many 
estimates presented in financial statements and other financial disclosures 
involve significant judgment and may be subject to significant uncertainty, 

estimates of the range of reasonably possible loss arising from litigation and 
regulatory proceedings are subject to particular uncertainties. For example, 
at the time of making an estimate, (i) Citigroup may have only preliminary, 

incomplete, or inaccurate information about the facts underlying the claim; 
(ii) its assumptions about the future rulings of the court or other tribunal 
on significant issues, or the behavior and incentives of adverse parties or 
regulators, may prove to be wrong; and (iii) the outcomes it is attempting to 
predict are often not amenable to the use of statistical or other quantitative 
analytical tools. In addition, from time to time an outcome may occur that 
Citigroup had not accounted for in its estimate because it had deemed such an outcome to be remote. For all these reasons, the amount of loss in excess 
of accruals ultimately incurred for the matters as to which an estimate has 
been made could be substantially higher or lower than the range of loss 
included in the estimate.Matters as to Which an Estimate Cannot Be Made. For other matters disclosed below, Citigroup is not currently able to estimate the reasonably 

possible loss or range of loss. Many of these matters remain in very 
preliminary stages (even in some cases where a substantial period of time has 

passed since the commencement of the matter), with few or no substantive 
legal decisions by the court or tribunal defining the scope of the claims, the 
class (if any), or the potentially available damages, and fact discovery is still 
in progress or has not yet begun. In many of these matters, Citigroup has 
not yet answered the complaint or statement of claim or asserted its defenses, 
nor has it engaged in any negotiations with the adverse party (whether 
a regulator or a private party). For all these reasons, Citigroup cannot at 
this time estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, if any, for 

these matters.Opinion of Management as to Eventual Outcome. Subject to the foregoing, it is the opinion of Citigroup™s management, based on current 

knowledge and after taking into account its current legal accruals, that the 
eventual outcome of all matters described in this Note would not be likely 
to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition 
of Citigroup. Nonetheless, given the substantial or indeterminate amounts 
sought in certain of these matters, and the inherent unpredictability of such 
matters, an adverse outcome in certain of these matters could, from time 
to time, have a material adverse effect on Citigroup™s consolidated results of 

operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.In 2003, Allied Irish Bank (AIB) filed a complaint in the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to hold Citibank and 
Bank of America, N.A., former prime brokers for AIB™s subsidiary Allfirst Bank 
(Allfirst), liable for losses incurred by Allfirst as a result of fraudulent and 
fictitious foreign currency trades entered into by one of Allfirst™s traders. In 
December 2015, the remaining parties reached a settlement that released all 
claims against Citibank. A notice of voluntary dismissal with prejudice was 
filed on January 14, 2016. Additional information concerning this action 
is publicly available in court filings under docket number 03 Civ. 3748 
(S.D.N.Y.) (Batts, J.).Beginning in May 2014, Citigroup became aware of reports of potential fraud 
relating to the financing of physical metal stored at the Qingdao and Penglai 
ports in China. Citibank and Citigroup Global Markets Limited (CGML) 
have contracts with a counterparty in relation to the provision of financing 
to that counterparty, collateralized by physical metal stored at these ports, 
with the agreements providing that the counterparty would repurchase the 
inventory at a specified date in the future (typically three to six months). 
Pursuant to the agreements, the counterparty is responsible for providing 284clean title to the inventory, insuring it, and attesting that there are no third party encumbrances. The counterparty is a non-Chinese subsidiary of a large 
multinational corporation, and the counterparty™s obligations under the 
contracts are guaranteed by the parent company.On July 22, 2014, Citibank and CGML commenced proceedings in the Commercial Court in London to enforce their rights against the counterparty 
under the relevant agreements in relation to approximately $285 million in 
financing. That counterparty and a Chinese warehouse provider previously 
brought actions in the English courts to establish the parties™ rights and 
obligations under these agreements. In early December 2014, the English 
court conducted a preliminary trial concerning, among other issues, the 
question of whether Citibank and/or CGML had appropriately accelerated 
their counterparty™s obligation to repay under the applicable agreements, 

given these facts and circumstances. The High Court in London issued a 
judgment on May 22, 2015 holding that the Citigroup affiliates had properly 
served bring forward event notices, but that because the metal had not 
been properly delivered, the counterparty did not yet have to pay Citibank 
and CGML.As a result of various filings by the parties, on January 15, 2016, Citibank and CGML were informed by the English Court of Appeal (i) that their 
application for permission to appeal certain aspects of the High Court™s 

2015 judgment had been granted; and (ii) that the counterparty had also 
been given permission to appeal certain aspects of the 2015 judgment. 
Various procedural matters continue. Additional information concerning 

this action is publicly available in court filings under the claim reference: 
Mercuria Energy Trading PTE Ltd & Another v. Citibank, N.A. & Another, 

Claim No. 2014 Folio 709, Appeal Nos. 2015/2407 (Citigroup) and 2015/2395 
(Mercuria) as regards the appeals.The financings at issue are carried at fair value. As with any position carried at fair value, Citigroup adjusts the positions and records a gain or loss 
on the Consolidated Statement of Income in accordance with GAAP.
Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in numerous 
legal actions and other proceedings asserting claims for damages and 
related relief for losses arising from the global financial credit crisis that 
began in 2007. Such matters include, among other types of proceedings, 
claims asserted by: (i) individual investors and purported classes of 
investors in Citigroup™s common and preferred stock and debt, alleging 
violations of the federal securities laws, foreign laws, state securities and 
fraud law, and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA); and 
(ii) individual investors and purported classes of investors in securities and 
other investments underwritten, issued or marketed by Citigroup, including 
securities issued by other public companies, collateralized debt obligations 
(CDOs), mortgage-backed securities (MBS), auction rate securities, 
investment funds, and other structured or leveraged instruments, which have 
suffered losses as a result of the credit crisis. These matters have been filed in 
state and federal courts across the U.S. and in foreign tribunals, as well as in 
arbitrations before the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and 
other arbitration associations.In addition to these litigations and arbitrations, Citigroup continues to cooperate fully in response to subpoenas and requests for information from 
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), FINRA, state attorneys 
general, the U.S. Department of Justice and subdivisions thereof, the Office 
of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, bank 

regulators, and other government agencies and authorities, in connection 
with various formal and informal (and, in many instances, industry-wide) 
inquiries concerning Citigroup™s mortgage-related conduct and business 

activities, as well as other business activities affected by the credit crisis. These 
business activities include, but are not limited to, Citigroup™s sponsorship, 

packaging, issuance, marketing, trading, servicing and underwriting of CDOs 
and MBS, its origination, sale or other transfer, servicing, and foreclosure of 

residential mortgages, and its origination and securitization of auto loans.Mortgage-Related Litigation and Other MattersSecurities Actions: Beginning in November 2007, Citigroup and Related 
Parties were named as defendants in a variety of class and individual 
securities actions filed by investors in Citigroup™s equity and debt securities 
in state and federal courts relating to Citigroup™s disclosures regarding its 
exposure to subprime-related assets.Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in a variety of putative class actions and individual actions arising out of Citigroup™s 

exposure to CDOs and other assets that declined in value during the financial 
crisis. Many of these matters have been dismissed or settled. These actions 
assert a wide range of claims, including claims under the federal securities 
laws, foreign securities laws, ERISA, and state law. Additional information 

concerning certain of these actions is publicly available in court filings under 
the docket numbers 10 Civ. 9646 (S.D.N.Y.) (Stein, J.), 11 Civ. 7672 (S.D.N.Y.) 

(Koeltl, J.), 13-4488, 13-4504, and 15-2461 (2d Cir.).
Beginning in November 2007, certain Citigroup affiliates also have been named as defendants arising out of their activities as underwriters 
of securities in actions brought by investors in securities issued by public 
companies adversely affected by the credit crisis. Many of these matters 
have been dismissed or settled. As a general matter, issuers indemnify 

underwriters in connection with such claims, but in certain of these matters 
Citigroup affiliates are not being indemnified or may in the future cease to be 
indemnified because of the financial condition of the issuer.
Mortgage-Backed Securities and CDO Investor Actions: Beginning in July 2010, Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in 
complaints filed by purchasers of MBS and CDOs sold or underwritten by 
Citigroup. The complaints generally assert that defendants made material 
misrepresentations and omissions about the credit quality of the assets 
underlying the securities or the manner in which those assets were selected, 
and typically assert claims under Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, 
state blue sky laws, and/or common-law misrepresentation-based causes 
of action.285The majority of these matters have been resolved through settlement or otherwise. As of December 31, 2015, the aggregate original purchase amount of the purchases at issue in the pending litigations was approximately 
$1.2 billion, and the aggregate original purchase amount of the purchases covered by tolling agreements with investors threatening litigation was approximately $500 million. Additional information concerning certain of 
these actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 
13-1729-II (Tenn. Ch. Ct.) (McCoy, C.), 650212/2012 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.) 

(Kornreich, J.), and 12 Civ. 3868 (S.D.N.Y.) (Forrest, J.).
Mortgage-Backed Security Repurchase Claims: Various parties to 
MBS securitizations and other interested parties have asserted that certain 
Citigroup affiliates breached representations and warranties made in 
connection with mortgage loans sold into securitization trusts (private-
label securitizations). Typically, these claims are based on allegations 

that securitized mortgages were not underwritten in accordance with the 
applicable underwriting standards. Citigroup also has received numerous 
inquiries, demands for loan files, and requests to toll (extend) the applicable 
statutes of limitation for representation and warranty claims relating to its 
private-label securitizations. These inquiries, demands and requests have 
been made by trustees of securitization trusts and others.On April 7, 2014, Citigroup entered into an agreement with 18 institutional investors represented by Gibbs & Bruns LLP regarding the 
resolution of representation and warranty repurchase claims related 
to certain legacy securitizations. Pursuant to the agreement, Citigroup 
made a binding offer to the trustees of 68 Citigroup-sponsored mortgage 
securitization trusts to pay $1.125 billion to the trusts to resolve these claims, 
plus certain fees and expenses. The 68 trusts covered by the agreement 
represent all of the trusts established by Citigroup™s legacy 
Securities and 
Banking business during 2005-2008 for which Citigroup affiliates made 
representations and warranties to the trusts. The trustees accepted the 
settlement for 64 trusts in whole, and four in part. Pursuant to the terms of 
the settlement agreement, the trustees™ acceptance was subject to a judicial 
approval proceeding. On December 18, 2015, the court filed a decision and 
order approving the trustees™ entry into the settlement and finding that the 
trustees, in entering the settlement, had exercised their authority reasonably 
and in good faith. Additional information concerning this proceeding is 
publicly available in court filings under the docket number 653902/2014 
(N.Y. Sup. Ct.) (Friedman, J.).
To date, trustees have filed six actions against Citigroup seeking to enforce 
certain of these contractual repurchase claims that were excluded from the 
April 7, 2014 settlement in connection with four private-label securitizations. 
Citigroup has reached an agreement with the trustees to resolve three of these 
actions, and those actions were dismissed with prejudice on January 26, 2016. 

The remaining three actions are in various stages of discovery. In the 

aggregate, plaintiffs are asserting repurchase claims in the remaining 
actions as to approximately 2,900 loans that were securitized into these 
three securitizations, as well as any other loans that are later found to have 
breached representations and warranties. Additional information concerning 
these actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 13 Civ. 2843 (S.D.N.Y.) (Daniels, J.), 13 Civ. 6989 (S.D.N.Y.) (Daniels, J.), 

653816/2013 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.) (Kornreich, J.), 653919/2014 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.), 

653929/2014 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.), and 653930/2014 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.).
Mortgage-Backed Securities Trustee Actions:
 On June 18, 2014, a group of investors in 48 RMBS trusts for which Citibank served or currently serves 
as trustee filed a complaint in New York State Supreme Court in BLACKROCK ALLOCATION TARGET SHARES: SERIES S. PORTFOLIO, ET AL. V. CITIBANK, 

N.A. The complaint, like those filed against other RMBS trustees, alleges 
that Citibank failed to pursue contractual remedies against securitization 
sponsors and servicers. This action was withdrawn without prejudice, 
effective December 17, 2014. On November 24, 2014, largely the same 
group of investors filed an action in the United States District Court for the 
Southern District of New York, captioned FIXED INCOME SHARES: SERIES 

M ET AL. V. CITIBANK N.A., alleging similar claims relating to 27 MBS 

trusts for which Citibank allegedly served or currently serves as trustee. On 
September 8, 2015, the United States District Court for the Southern District 
of New York dismissed all claims as to 24 of the 27 trusts and allowed certain 

of the claims to proceed as to the other three trusts. Additional information 
concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
number 14-cv-9373 (S.D.N.Y.) (Furman, J.).
On November 24, 2015, largely the same group of investors filed another action in the New York State Supreme Court, captioned FIXED INCOME 

SHARES: SERIES M, ET AL. V. CITIBANK N.A., related to the 24 trusts 

dismissed from the federal court action and one additional trust, asserting 
claims similar to the original complaint filed in state court. Additional 
information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings 
under the docket number 653891/2015 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.) (Ramos, J.).
On August 19, 2015, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as receiver for a financial institution filed a civil action against Citibank in the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, captioned 

FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION AS RECEIVER FOR 

GUARANTY BANK V. CITIBANK N.A. The complaint concerns one RMBS trust 

for which Citibank formerly served as trustee, and alleges that Citibank failed 
to pursue contractual remedies against the sponsor and servicers of that trust. 
Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court 
filings under the docket number 15-cv-6574 (S.D.N.Y.) (Carter, J.).
Counterparty and Investor ActionsIn 2010, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) commenced an 
arbitration (ADIA I) against Citigroup before the International Center for 
Dispute Resolution (ICDR), alleging statutory and common law claims in 
connection with its $7.5 billion investment in Citigroup in December 2007. 
ADIA sought rescission of the investment agreement or, in the alternative, 
more than $4 billion in damages. On October 14, 2011, the arbitration panel 
issued a final award and statement of reasons finding in favor of Citigroup 
on all claims asserted by ADIA.286On March 4, 2013, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York denied ADIA™s petition to vacate the arbitration award 
and granted Citigroup™s cross-petition to confirm. ADIA appealed and, on 

February 19, 2014, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit 
affirmed the judgment. Additional information concerning this action is 
publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 12 Civ. 283 

(S.D.N.Y.) (Daniels, J.), 13-1068-cv (2d Cir.), and 13-1500 (U.S.).
On August 20, 2013, ADIA commenced a second arbitration (ADIA II) against Citigroup before the ICDR, alleging common law claims arising out 
of the same investment at issue in ADIA I. On August 28, 2013, Citigroup 
filed a complaint against ADIA in the United States District Court for the 
Southern District of New York seeking to enjoin ADIA II on the ground that it 

is barred by the court™s judgment confirming the arbitral award in ADIA I. On 

September 23, 2013, ADIA filed motions to dismiss Citigroup™s complaint and 

to compel arbitration. On November 25, 2013, the court denied Citigroup™s 

motion for a preliminary injunction and granted ADIA™s motions to dismiss 

and to compel arbitration. On December 23, 2013, Citigroup appealed 
that ruling to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On 
January 14, 2015, the Second Circuit affirmed the district court™s ruling. 

Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court 
filings under the docket numbers 13 Civ. 6073 (S.D.N.Y.) (Castel, J.) and 

13-4825 (2d Cir.).
Alternative Investment Fund-Related Litigation and Other Matters
Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in a putative 
class action lawsuit filed in October 2012 on behalf of investors in CSO Ltd., 
CSO US Ltd., and Corporate Special Opportunities Ltd., whose investments 
were managed indirectly by a Citigroup affiliate. Plaintiffs asserted a 
variety of state common law claims, alleging that they and other investors 
were misled into investing in the funds and, later, not redeeming their 
investments. The complaint sought to recover more than $400 million on 
behalf of a putative class of investors. On August 10, 2015, the parties entered 
into an agreement providing for a class action settlement of the litigation. 
The court held a final settlement hearing on December 17, 2015 and 
entered an order approving the settlement on January 28, 2016. Additional 
information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings 
under the docket number 12-cv-7717 (S.D.N.Y.) (Woods, J.).Auction Rate Securities-Related Litigation and Other Matters
Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in numerous 
actions and proceedings brought by Citigroup shareholders and purchasers or 
issuers of auction rate securities (ARS) and an issuer of variable rate demand 
obligations, asserting federal and state law claims arising from the collapse 
of the market in 2008, which plaintiffs contend Citigroup and other ARS 
underwriters and broker-dealers foresaw or should have foreseen, but failed 
adequately to disclose. Many of these matters have been dismissed or settled. 
Most of the remaining matters are in arbitrations pending before FINRA.Lehman Brothers Bankruptcy Proceedings
On February 8, 2012, Citibank and certain Citigroup affiliates were named as 
defendants in an adversary proceeding asserting objections to proofs of claim 
totaling approximately $2.6 billion filed by Citibank and those affiliates, 
and claims under federal bankruptcy and state law to recover $2 billion 
deposited by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LBHI) with Citibank against 
which Citibank asserts a right of setoff. Plaintiffs also sought avoidance 
of a $500 million transfer and an amendment to a guarantee in favor of 
Citibank and other relief; plaintiffs dismissed, with prejudice, their claim to 
avoid the $500 million transfer pursuant to a stipulation entered by the court 
on March 12, 2015. Plaintiffs filed various amended complaints asserting 
additional claims and factual allegations, and amending certain previously 
asserted claims.Discovery related to the remaining claims is ongoing. Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings 
under the docket numbers 12-01044 and 08-13555 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) 

(Chapman, J.).On July 21, 2014, an adversary proceeding was filed on behalf of Lehman Brothers Finance AG against Citibank, Citibank Korea Inc. and 
CGML asserting that defendants improperly have withheld termination 
payments under certain derivatives contracts. An amended complaint was filed by plaintiff on August 6, 2014. Plaintiff seeks to recover approximately 
$70 million, plus interest. Discovery is ongoing. Additional information 
concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
numbers 14-02050 and 09-10583 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) (Chapman, J.).
Terra Firma Litigation
In December 2009, the general partners of two related private equity funds 
filed a complaint in New York state court, subsequently removed to the United 

States District Court for the Southern District of New York, asserting multi-
billion-dollar claims against Citigroup and certain of its affiliates arising 
out of the May 2007 auction of the music company, EMI, in which Citigroup 
affiliates acted as advisor to EMI and as a lender to plaintiffs™ acquisition 
vehicle. Following a jury trial, a verdict was returned in favor of Citigroup 
on November 4, 2010. Plaintiffs appealed from the entry of the judgment. 
On May 31, 2013, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit 
vacated the November 2010 jury verdict in favor of the defendants and 
ordered that the case be retried. On March 7, 2014, the parties stipulated to 
the dismissal of all remaining claims in the action, without prejudice to 
plaintiffs™ rights to re-file those claims in England. Additional information 
concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
numbers 09 Civ. 10459 (S.D.N.Y.) (Rakoff, J.) and 11-0126-cv (2d Cir.).287In August and September 2013, plaintiffs in the New York proceedings, 
together with their affiliates and principal, filed claims against CGML, Citibank and Citigroup arising out of the EMI auction in the High Court of 
Justice, Queen™s Bench Division and Manchester District Registry Mercantile 

Court in Manchester, England. The cases have since been transferred to the 

High Court of Justice, Queen™s Bench Division, Commercial Court in London. 

On March 7, 2014, the parties to the separate proceedings filed by Terra 

Firma in 2013 before the High Court of Justice, Queen™s Bench Division, 

consented to the service by plaintiffs of an amended complaint incorporating 
the claims that would have proceeded to trial in the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York in July 2014, had the New 

York action not been dismissed. A trial (which is based on allegations of 

fraudulent misrepresentations) is scheduled to begin in London on June 7, 
2016. Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in 
court filings under the claim reference Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. 

& Ors v Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. & Ors (CL-2013-000293).Tribune Company BankruptcyCertain Citigroup affiliates have been named as defendants in adversary 
proceedings related to the Chapter 11 cases of Tribune Company (Tribune) 
filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware, 
asserting claims arising out of the approximately $11 billion leveraged 
buyout of Tribune in 2007. On August 2, 2013, the Litigation Trustee, as 
successor plaintiff to the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors, filed 
a fifth amended complaint in the adversary proceeding KIRSCHNER v. 
FITZSIMONS, ET AL. The complaint seeks to avoid and recover as actual 
fraudulent transfers the transfers of Tribune stock that occurred as a part of 
the leveraged buyout. Several Citigroup affiliates are named as ﬁShareholder 
Defendantsﬂ and are alleged to have tendered Tribune stock to Tribune as a 
part of the buyout.Several Citigroup affiliates are named as defendants in certain actions brought by Tribune noteholders, also seeking to recover the transfers of 

Tribune stock that occurred as a part of the leveraged buyout, as alleged 

state-law constructive fraudulent conveyances. Finally, Citigroup Global 

Markets Inc. (CGMI) has been named in a separate action as a defendant in 
connection with its role as advisor to Tribune. The noteholders™ claims were 

previously dismissed, and an appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for 
the Second Circuit is pending. A motion to dismiss the action against CGMI 
in its role as advisor to Tribune is pending.
In the FITZSIMONS action, claims against certain Citigroup affiliates have been dismissed or reduced in amount by various orders. Additional 
information concerning these actions is publicly available in court filings 
under the docket numbers 08-13141 (Bankr. D. Del.) (Carey, J.), 11 MD 

02296 (S.D.N.Y.) (Sullivan, J.), 12 MC 2296 (S.D.N.Y.) (Sullivan, J.), and 

13-3992 (2d Cir.).
In April 2011, the European Commission (EC) opened an investigation (Case 
No COMP/39.745) into the credit default swap (CDS) industry. The scope of 
the investigation initially concerned the question of ﬁwhether 16 investment 
banks and Markit, the leading provider of financial information in the CDS 
market, have colluded and/or may hold and abuse a dominant position in 
order to control the financial information on CDS.ﬂOn July 2, 2013, the EC issued to Citigroup, CGMI, CGML, Citicorp North America Inc. and Citibank, as well as Markit, ISDA, and 12 other 
investment bank dealer groups, a statement of objections alleging that Citi 
and the other dealers colluded to prevent exchanges from entering the credit 
derivatives business in breach of Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning 

of the European Union. The statement of objections set forth the EC™s 

preliminary conclusions, did not prejudge the final outcome of the case, 
and did not benefit from the review and consideration of Citi™s arguments 

and defenses. Thereafter, Citi filed a reply and made oral submissions to 

the EC. On December 4, 2015, the EC informed Citi that it had closed its 
proceeding against Citi and the other investment bank dealer groups, without 
further action.In July 2009 and September 2011, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice served Civil Investigative Demands (CIDs) on Citi 
concerning potential anticompetitive conduct in the CDS industry.
In addition, putative class action complaints were filed by various entities against Citigroup, CGMI and Citibank, among other defendants, 
alleging anticompetitive conduct in the CDS industry and asserting various 
claims under Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act as well as a state law 
claim for unjust enrichment. On October 16, 2013, the U.S. Judicial 
Panel on Multidistrict Litigation centralized these putative class actions 
in the Southern District of New York for coordinated or consolidated 

pretrial proceedings before Judge Denise Cote. On September 30, 2015, the 
defendants, including Citigroup and Related Parties, entered into settlement 
agreements to settle all claims of the putative class, and on October 29, 
2015, the court granted plaintiffs™ motion for preliminary approval of the 
proposed settlements. Additional information relating to this action is 
publicly available in court filings under the docket number 13 MD 2476 
(S.D.N.Y.) (Cote, J.).
Regulatory Actions: Government and regulatory agencies in the U.S. and 
in other jurisdictions are conducting investigations or making inquiries 
regarding Citigroup™s foreign exchange business. Citigroup is fully 
cooperating with these and related investigations and inquiries.Antitrust and Other Litigation: Numerous foreign exchange dealers, including Citigroup and Citibank, are named as defendants in putative class 
actions that are proceeding on a consolidated basis in the United States 
District Court for the Southern District of New York under the caption IN RE 

FOREIGN EXCHANGE BENCHMARK RATES ANTITRUST LITIGATION.
 The 
plaintiffs in these actions allege that the defendants colluded to manipulate 288the WM/Reuters rate (WMR), thereby causing the putative classes to suffer losses in connection with WMR-based financial instruments. The plaintiffs 
assert federal and state antitrust claims and claims for unjust enrichment, 
and seek compensatory damages, treble damages and declaratory and 
injunctive relief. On March 31, 2014, plaintiffs in the putative class actions 
filed a consolidated amended complaint.Citibank, Citigroup, and Citibank Korea Inc., as well as numerous other foreign exchange dealers, were named as defendants in a putative 
class action captioned SIMMTECH CO. v. BARCLAYS BANK PLC, ET AL. 

(SIMMTECH) that was proceeding before the same court. The plaintiff 
sought to represent a putative class of persons who traded foreign currency 
with the defendants in Korea, alleging that the class suffered losses as a 
result of the defendants™ alleged WMR manipulation. The plaintiff asserted 
federal and state antitrust claims, and sought compensatory damages, treble 
damages and declaratory and injunctive relief.Additionally, Citibank and Citigroup, as well as numerous other foreign 
exchange dealers, were named as defendants in a putative class action 
captioned LARSEN v. BARCLAYS BANK PLC, ET AL. (LARSEN), that was 

proceeding before the same court. The plaintiff sought to represent a putative 
class of persons or entities in Norway who traded foreign currency with 
defendants, alleging that the class suffered losses as a result of defendants™ 
alleged WMR manipulation. The plaintiff asserted federal antitrust and 
unjust enrichment claims, and sought compensatory damages, treble 
damages and declaratory and injunctive relief.Citigroup and Citibank, along with other defendants, moved to dismiss all of these actions. On January 28, 2015, the court issued an opinion and order 
denying the motion as to the IN RE FOREIGN EXCHANGE BENCHMARK 
RATES ANTITRUST LITIGATION plaintiffs, but dismissing the claims of the 

SIMMTECH and LARSEN plaintiffs in their entirety on the grounds that their 
federal claims were barred by the Foreign Trade Antitrust Improvements 

Act and their state claims had an insufficient nexus to New York. Additional 

information concerning these actions is publicly available in court filings 
under the docket numbers 13 Civ. 7789, 13 Civ. 7953, and 14 Civ. 1364 

(S.D.N.Y.) (Schofield, J.).
Additional actions have been consolidated in the IN RE FOREIGN EXCHANGE BENCHMARK RATES ANTITRUST LITIGATION proceeding, 

including lawsuits brought by, or on behalf of putative classes of, investors 

that transacted in exchange-traded foreign exchange futures contracts and/
or options on foreign exchange futures contracts on certain exchanges. The 
plaintiffs allege that they suffered losses as a result of the defendants™ alleged 
manipulation of, and collusion with respect to, the foreign exchange market. 
The plaintiffs allege violations of the Commodity Exchange Act, the Sherman 
Act, and/or the Clayton Act, and seek compensatory damages, treble damages 
and declaratory and injunctive relief.On December 15, 2015, the court entered an order preliminarily approving a proposed settlement between the Citi defendants and classes of 
plaintiffs who traded foreign exchange instruments in the spot market and on exchanges. The proposed settlement provides for the Citi defendants to 
receive a release in exchange for a payment of $394 million (which was 
made on December 18, 2015) plus a separate payment of $8 million (which 
is due upon final approval of the settlement by the court).Additional information concerning these actions is publicly available in court filings under the following docket numbers: 15 Civ. 1350; 15 Civ. 2705; 

15 Civ. 4230; 15 Civ. 4436; and 15 Civ. 4926 (S.D.N.Y.) (Schofield, J.).
On May 21, 2015, an action captioned NYPL v. JPMORGAN CHASE & 
CO., ET. AL was brought in the United States District Court for the Northern 

District of California against Citigroup, as well as numerous other foreign 
exchange dealers. The plaintiff seeks to represent a putative class of 
ﬁconsumers and businesses in the United States who directly purchased 
supracompetitive foreign currency exchange ratesﬂ from defendants for 
their end use. The plaintiff filed an amended complaint on June 11, 2015, 
alleging violations of the Sherman Act, and seeking compensatory damages, 
treble damages and declaratory and injunctive relief. On November 9, 
2015, the court granted the defendants™ motion to transfer the action to the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York for possible 

consolidation with IN RE FOREIGN EXCHANGE BENCHMARK RATES 

ANTITRUST LITIGATION. Additional information concerning this action is 

publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 15 Civ. 2290 

(N.D. Cal.) (Chhabria, J.) and 15 Civ. 9300 (S.D.N.Y.) (Schofield, J.).
On June 3, 2015, an action captioned ALLEN v. BANK OF AMERICA 
CORPORATION, ET AL. was brought in the United States District Court for 

the Southern District of New York against Citigroup, as well as numerous 

other foreign exchange dealers. The plaintiff seeks to represent a putative 
class of participants, beneficiaries, and named fiduciaries of qualified 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) plans for whom a 
defendant provided foreign exchange transactional services or authorized or 
permitted foreign exchange transactional services involving a plan™s assets 

in connection with its exercise of authority or control regarding an ERISA 
plan. The plaintiff alleges violations of ERISA, and seeks compensatory 
damages, restitution, disgorgement and declaratory and injunctive relief. On 
June 29, 2015, ALLEN was consolidated with IN RE FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
BENCHMARK RATES ANTITRUST LITIGATION for discovery purposes only. 

Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court 
filings under the docket number 15 Civ. 4285 (S.D.N.Y.) (Schofield, J.).
In September 2015, putative class actions captioned BÉLAND v. ROYAL 
BANK OF CANADA, ET AL. and STAINES v. ROYAL BANK OF CANADA, ET AL. 

were filed in the Quebec Superior Court of Justice and the Ontario Superior 
Court of Justice, respectively, against Citigroup and Related Parties, as well as 

numerous other foreign exchange dealers. Plaintiffs allege that defendants 
conspired to fix the prices and supply of currency purchased in the foreign 
exchange market, and that this manipulation caused investors to pay inflated 
rates for currency and/or to receive deflated rates for currency. Plaintiffs 

assert claims under the Canadian Competition Act and the Quebec Civil Code 289and/or for civil conspiracy, unjust enrichment and waiver of tort. Plaintiffs 
seek compensatory and punitive damages, or disgorgement, on behalf of 
putative classes of all persons in Quebec or in Canada who entered into a 
foreign exchange instrument or participated in a fund or investment vehicle 
that entered into a foreign exchange instrument between January 1, 2003 
and December 31, 2013. Additional information concerning these actions is 
publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 200-06-000189-
152 (C.S.Q. Quebec) and CV-15-536174 (Ont. S.C.J.).
On September 16, 2015, an action captioned NEGRETE v. CITIBANK, 
N.A. was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District 
of New York. Plaintiffs allege that Citibank, N.A. engaged in conduct in 

connection with plaintiffs™ foreign exchange trading that caused them 
losses. Plaintiffs assert claims for fraud, breach of contract, and negligence, 
and seek compensatory damages, punitive damages and injunctive relief. 
On November 17, 2015, Citi filed a motion to dismiss and a motion to stay 
discovery pending resolution of the motion to dismiss. On December 7, 2015, 
the court granted Citi™s motion for a stay of discovery. Additional information 

concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
number 15 Civ. 7250 (S.D.N.Y.) (Sweet, J.).
Derivative Actions and Related Proceedings: In June 2015, Citigroup was named as a defendant in IRA FOR THE BENEFIT OF VICTORIA SHAEV 
V. CITIGROUP INC. The complaint was filed by a putative stockholder in 

New York Supreme Court seeking to inspect Citigroup™s books and records 

pursuant to Section 220 of Chapter 8 of the Delaware Corporations Law 
with regard to various matters, including Citigroup™s participation and 

activity in foreign exchange markets. On January 26, 2016, the court 
granted Citigroup™s motion to dismiss the complaint. Additional information 

concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
number 652339/2015 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.).

Regulatory Actions: The CFTC and a consortium of state attorneys general, 
as well as government and regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions, are 
conducting investigations or making inquiries regarding submissions made 
by panel banks to bodies that publish various interbank offered rates and 
other benchmark rates. As members of a number of such panels, Citigroup 
subsidiaries have received requests for information and documents. Citigroup is cooperating with the investigations and inquiries and is responding to 
the requests.Antitrust and Other Litigation: Citigroup and Citibank, along with other U.S. Dollar (USD) LIBOR panel banks, are defendants in a multi-district 
litigation (MDL) proceeding before the United States District Court for the 
Southern District of New York captioned IN RE LIBOR-BASED FINANCIAL 

INSTRUMENTS ANTITRUST LITIGATION (the LIBOR MDL). Consolidated 

amended complaints were filed on behalf of two separate putative classes of 
plaintiffs: (i) over-the-counter (OTC) purchasers of derivative instruments 

tied to USD LIBOR; and (ii) purchasers of exchange-traded derivative instruments tied to USD LIBOR. Each of these putative classes alleges that the 
panel bank defendants conspired to suppress USD LIBOR: (i) OTC purchasers 
assert claims under the Sherman Act and for unjust enrichment and breach 
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; and (ii) purchasers 
of exchange-traded derivative instruments assert claims under the 
Commodity Exchange Act and the Sherman Act and for unjust enrichment. 
Individual actions commenced by various Charles Schwab entities also were 
consolidated into the LIBOR MDL. The plaintiffs seek compensatory damages 
and restitution for losses caused by the alleged violations, as well as treble 
damages under the Sherman Act. The Schwab and OTC plaintiffs also seek 
injunctive relief.Additional actions have been consolidated in the LIBOR MDL proceeding, including (i) lawsuits filed by, or on behalf of putative classes of, community 

and other banks, savings and loans institutions, credit unions, municipalities 
and purchasers and holders of LIBOR-linked financial products; and 
(ii) lawsuits filed by putative classes of lenders and adjustable rate mortgage 
borrowers. The plaintiffs allege that defendant panel banks artificially 
suppressed USD LIBOR in violation of applicable law and seek compensatory 
and other damages.Additional information relating to these actions is publicly available in court filings under the following docket numbers: 12 Civ. 4205; 12 Civ. 5723; 

12 Civ. 5822; 12 Civ. 6056; 12 Civ. 6693; 12 Civ. 7461; 13 Civ. 346; 13 Civ. 

407; 13 Civ. 1016, 13 Civ. 1456, 13 Civ. 1700, 13 Civ. 2262, 13 Civ. 2297; 13 

Civ. 4018; 13 Civ. 7720; 14 Civ. 146 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 12 Civ. 6294 

(E.D.N.Y.) (Seybert, J.); 12 Civ. 6571 (N.D. Cal.) (Conti, J.); 12 Civ. 10903 

(C.D. Cal.) (Snyder, J.); 13 Civ. 48 (S.D. Cal.) (Sammartino, J.); 13 Civ. 62 

(C.D. Cal.) (Phillips, J.); 13 Civ. 106 (N.D. Cal.) (Beller, J.); 13 Civ. 108 (N.D. 

Cal.) (Ryu, J.); 13 Civ. 109 (N.D. Cal.) (Laporte, J.); 13 Civ. 122 (C.D. Cal.) 

(Bernal, J.); 13 Civ. 334, 13 Civ. 335 (S.D. Iowa) (Pratt, J.); 13 Civ. 342 (E.D. 

Va.) (Brinkema, J.); 13 Civ. 1466 (S.D. Cal.) (Lorenz, J.); 13 Civ. 1476 (E.D. 

Cal.) (Mueller, J.); 13 Civ. 2149 (S.D. Tex.) (Hoyt, J.); 13 Civ. 2244 (N.D. Cal.) 
(Hamilton, J.); 13 Civ. 2921 (N.D. Cal.) (Chesney, J.); 13 Civ. 2979 (N.D. 

Cal.) (Tigar, J.); 13 Civ. 4352 (E.D. Pa.) (Restrepo, J.); 13 Civ. 5278 (N.D. 

Cal.) (Vadas, J.); 15 Civ. 1334 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); and 15 Civ. 2973 

(S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.).
On August 4, 2015, the court in IN RE LIBOR-BASED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ANTITRUST LITIGATION granted in part defendants™ 

motions to dismiss various individual actions that were previously stayed, 
dismissing plaintiffs™ antitrust claims for failure to state a claim, and holding 
that plaintiffs cannot pursue certain other claims based on lack of personal 
jurisdiction or the operation of the applicable statute of limitations. The 
court allowed certain of plaintiffs™ claims for common law fraud, breach of 
contract, unjust enrichment and tortious interference to proceed. On October 
8, 2015, the City of Philadelphia and the Pennsylvania Intergovernmental 
Cooperation Authority amended their complaint in response to the court™s 

August 4, 2015 decision. Additional information concerning these actions 
is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 11 MD 2262 
(S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.).
290On June 30, 2014, the United States Supreme Court granted a petition for a writ of certiorari in GELBOIM, ET AL. v. BANK OF AMERICA CORP., 
ET AL. with respect to the dismissal by the United States Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit of an appeal by the plaintiff class of indirect OTC 
purchasers of U.S. debt securities. On January 21, 2015, the Supreme Court 
ruled that, contrary to the Second Circuit™s opinion, the plaintiffs had a right 

to appeal, and remanded the case to the Second Circuit for consideration of 
the plaintiffs™ appeal on the merits. The Second Circuit heard oral argument 
on November 13, 2015. Additional information concerning this appeal is 
publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 13-3565 (2d 
Cir.), 13-3636 (2d Cir.), and 13-1174 (U.S.).
Citigroup and Citibank, along with other USD LIBOR panel banks, also are named as defendants in an individual action filed in the United States 
District Court for the Southern District of New York on February 13, 2013, 

captioned 7 WEST 57th STREET REALTY CO. v. CITIGROUP, INC., ET AL. 
The plaintiff alleges that the defendant panel banks manipulated USD 
LIBOR to keep it artificially high and that this manipulation affected the 
value of plaintiffs™ OTC municipal bond portfolio in violation of federal and 
state antitrust laws and federal RICO law. The plaintiff seeks compensatory 

damages, treble damages where authorized by statute, and declaratory 
relief. On March 31, 2015, the United States District Court for the Southern 
District of New York dismissed this action. On June 1, 2015, the plaintiff 

moved for leave to file a second amended complaint. Additional information 
concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
number 13 Civ. 981 (Gardephe, J.).
On May 2, 2014, plaintiffs in the class action SULLIVAN v. BARCLAYS PLC, 
ET AL. pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of 
New York filed a second amended complaint naming Citigroup and Citibank, 

N.A. as defendants. Plaintiffs claim to have suffered losses as a result of 
purported EURIBOR manipulation and assert claims under the Commodity 
Exchange Act, the Sherman Act and the federal RICO law, and for unjust 

enrichment. On September 11, 2014, the court granted the U.S. Department 
of Justice™s motion to stay discovery for eight months, until May 12, 2015. 

Plaintiffs filed a fourth amended complaint on August 13, 2015. Defendants 
filed a motion to dismiss on October 14, 2015. Additional information 
concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
number 13 Civ. 2811 (S.D.N.Y.) (Castel, J.).
Beginning in 2005, several putative class actions were filed against Citigroup 
and Related Parties, together with Visa, MasterCard and other banks and their 
affiliates, in various federal district courts and consolidated with other related 
cases in a multi-district litigation proceeding before Judge Gleeson in the 
United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (Interchange 
MDL). This proceeding is captioned IN RE PAYMENT CARD INTERCHANGE 
FEE AND MERCHANT DISCOUNT ANTITRUST LITIGATION.The plaintiffs, merchants that accept Visa- and MasterCard-branded 
payment cards as well as membership associations that claim to represent 
certain groups of merchants, allege, among other things, that defendants 
have engaged in conspiracies to set the price of interchange and merchant 
discount fees on credit and debit card transactions and to restrain trade 
through various Visa and MasterCard rules governing merchant conduct, 

all in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act and certain California 
statutes. Supplemental complaints also have been filed against defendants 
in the putative class actions alleging that Visa™s and MasterCard™s respective 

initial public offerings were anticompetitive and violated Section 7 of the 
Clayton Act, and that MasterCard™s initial public offering constituted a 

fraudulent conveyance.On January 14, 2014, the court entered a final judgment approving the terms of a class settlement providing for, among other things, a total 

payment to the class of $6.05 billion; a rebate to merchants participating in 
the damages class settlement of 10 basis points on interchange collected for a 
period of eight months by the Visa and MasterCard networks; and changes to 

certain network rules.On July 28, 2015, various objectors to the class settlement filed motions in the U.S. District Court to vacate the court™s prior approval of the class 

settlement, alleging improprieties by two of the lawyers involved in the 
Interchange MDL. Various objectors appealed from the final class settlement 

approval order with the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, 
which heard oral argument regarding the appeals on September 28, 2015. 
Additional information concerning these consolidated actions is publicly 
available in court filings under the docket number MDL 05-1720 (E.D.N.Y.) 

(Brodie, J.) and 12-4671 (2d Cir.).
Numerous merchants, including large national merchants, have requested exclusion from the class settlements, and some of those opting 
out have filed complaints against Visa, MasterCard, and in some instances 

one or more issuing banks. One of these suits, 7-ELEVEN, INC., ET AL. v. 

VISA INC., ET AL., brought on behalf of numerous individual merchants, 
names Citigroup as a defendant. On December 5, 2014, the Interchange 
MDL, including the opt-out cases, was transferred from Judge Gleeson 
to Judge Brodie. Additional information concerning these actions is 
publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers MDL 05-1720 
(E.D.N.Y.) (Brodie, J.).
291Regulatory Actions: Government and regulatory agencies in the U.S., including the CFTC, are conducting investigations or making inquiries 
concerning submissions for the global benchmark for fixed interest rate 
swaps (ISDAFIX) and trading in products that reference ISDAFIX. Citigroup is 
fully cooperating with these and related investigations and inquiries.Antitrust and Other Litigation. Beginning in September 2014, various plaintiffs filed putative class action complaints in the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York against Citigroup and other U.S. 

dollar (USD) ISDAFIX panel banks, which are proceeding on a consolidated 
basis. On February 12, 2015, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint alleging 
that the defendants colluded to manipulate ISDAFIX, thereby causing the 
putative class to suffer losses in connection with USD interest rate derivatives 
purchased from the defendants. Plaintiffs assert federal and various 
common law claims and seek compensatory damages, treble damages where 
authorized by statute, restitution and declaratory and injunctive relief. On 
April 13, 2015, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the claims in plaintiffs™ 
amended consolidated complaint. Additional information concerning these 
actions is publicly available in court filings under the consolidated lead 
docket number 14 Civ. 7126 (S.D.N.Y.) (Furman, J.).
Regulatory Actions: Citigroup and Related Parties, including Citigroup™s 
indirect, wholly owned subsidiary Banamex USA (BUSA), a California state-
chartered bank, have received grand jury subpoenas issued by the United 
States Attorney™s Office for the District of Massachusetts concerning, among 
other issues, policies, procedures and activities related to BUSA, Citibank and 
related parties™ compliance with Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) and anti-money 
laundering (AML) requirements under applicable federal laws and banking 
regulations. Citigroup and BUSA also have received inquiries and requests 
for information from other regulators, including the Financial Crimes 
Enforcement Network, concerning BSA- and AML-related issues. Citigroup is 
cooperating fully with these inquiries.Citibank has received a subpoena from the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York in connection with its investigation of alleged 

bribery, corruption and money laundering associated with the Federation 

Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), and the potential involvement 

of financial institutions in that activity. The subpoena requests information 

relating to, among other things, banking relationships and transactions at 
Citibank and its affiliates associated with certain individuals and entities 
identified as having had involvement with the alleged corrupt conduct. Citi is 
cooperating with the authorities in this matter.
Derivative Actions and Related Proceedings: On September 22, 2015, a derivative action captioned FIREMAN™S RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF ST. 

LOUIS, ET AL. v. CORBAT, ET AL. was filed in the United States District Court 

for the Southern District of New York on behalf of Citigroup (as nominal 

defendant) against certain of Citigroup™s and certain of its affiliates™ present 
and former directors and officers. The plaintiffs asserted claims derivatively 
for violation of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment 

in connection with the defendants™ alleged failure to exercise appropriate 
oversight and management of BSA and AML laws and regulations and 
related consent decrees concerning Citigroup™s subsidiaries Banco Nacional 

de Mexico, or Banamex, and BUSA. On December 14, 2015, plaintiffs, 
with the permission of the court, filed an amended complaint naming 
additional present and former directors and officers of Citigroup affiliates 
as defendants. Defendants™ motion to dismiss the amended complaint was 
filed on January 22, 2016. Additional information concerning this action 
is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 15 Civ. 7501 

(S.D.N.Y.) (Furman, J.).
Regulatory Actions: As a result of Citigroup™s announcement in the first 
quarter of 2014 of a fraud discovered in a Petróleos Mexicanos (Pemex) 
supplier program involving Oceanografía SA de CV (OSA), a Mexican oil 
services company and a key supplier to Pemex, the SEC commenced a formal 
investigation and the U.S. Department of Justice requested information 
regarding Banamex™s dealings with OSA. The SEC inquiry has included 
requests for documents and witness testimony. Citi continues to cooperate 
fully with these inquiries.Derivative Actions and Related Proceedings: Beginning in April 2014, Citigroup has been named as a defendant in two complaints filed by its 
stockholders seeking to inspect Citigroup™s books and records pursuant to 

Section 220 of Chapter 8 of the Delaware Corporations Law with regard 
to various matters, including the OSA fraud. On April 24, 2015, in the 
action brought by Oklahoma Firefighters Pension & Retirement System, 
the Court of Chancery issued a decision adopting the Master in Chancery™s 

September 30, 2014 recommendation granting in part and denying in 
part plaintiff™s request to inspect Citigroup™s books and records. On May 5, 

2015, Citigroup answered a similar complaint filed by Key West Municipal 

Firefighters & Police Officers™ Retirement Trust Fund. Additional information 

concerning these actions is publicly available in court filings under the 
docket numbers C.A. No. 9587-ML (Del. Ch.) (LeGrow, M.) and C.A. No. 

10468-ML (Del. Ch.) (LeGrow, M.).
On July 29, 2004, Dr. Enrico Bondi, the Extraordinary Commissioner 
appointed under Italian law to oversee the administration of various 
Parmalat companies, filed a complaint in New Jersey state court against 
Citigroup and Related Parties alleging, among other things, that the 
defendants ﬁfacilitatedﬂ a number of frauds by Parmalat insiders. On 
October 20, 2008, following trial, a jury rendered a verdict in Citigroup™s 
favor on Parmalat™s claims and in favor of Citibank, N.A. on three 
counterclaims. Parmalat has exhausted all appeals, and the judgment is now 
final. Additional information concerning this action is publicly available 
in court filings under the docket number A-2654-08T2 (N.J. Sup. Ct.). 292Following the jury verdict awarding $431 million in damages on Citigroup™s counterclaim, Citigroup has taken steps to enforce that judgment in the 
Italian courts. On August 29, 2014, the Court of Appeal of Bologna affirmed 
the decision in the full amount of $431 million, to be paid in Parmalat 
shares. Parmalat has appealed the judgment to the Italian Supreme Court.Prosecutors in Parma and Milan, Italy, brought criminal proceedings 
against certain current and former Citigroup employees (along with 
numerous other investment banks and certain of their current and 
former employees, as well as former Parmalat officers and accountants). 
On April 18, 2011, the Milan criminal court acquitted the sole Citigroup 
defendant of market-rigging charges. The Milan prosecutors appealed part of 
that judgment and sought administrative remedies against Citigroup under 
Italian Administrative Law 231. On February 5, 2014, the Milan Court of 
Appeal restricted the remedy to an administrative fine of 500,000, which was later upheld by the Italian Supreme Court.Additionally, the Parmalat administrator filed a purported civil complaint 
against Citigroup in the context of the Parma criminal proceedings. On 
March 5, 2015, the Parma criminal court accepted plea bargain agreements 
from each of the defendants (eight current and former Citigroup employees) 
and closed the criminal proceedings that had been commenced by 
prosecutors in Parma. As a result of the agreements entered into by the 
individuals, the Parma criminal court was no longer able to hear the civil 
complaint filed by the Parmalat administrator against Citigroup. On June 16, 
2015, the Parmalat administrator refiled the claim in an Italian civil court 
in Milan, this time claiming damages of 1.8 billion against Citigroup and 
Related Parties and other financial institutions. A preliminary hearing in this 
new Milan proceeding is scheduled for April 19, 2016.Citibank is currently subject to regulatory investigation concerning 
certain student loan servicing practices. Citibank is cooperating with 
the investigation. Similar servicing practices have been the subject of 
an enforcement action against at least one other institution. In light of 
that action and the current regulatory focus on student loans, regulators 
may order that Citibank remediate customers and/or impose penalties or 
other relief.Regulatory Actions: Government and regulatory agencies in the U.S. and 
in other jurisdictions are conducting investigations or making inquiries 
regarding Citigroup™s sales and trading activities in connection with 
sovereign securities. Citigroup is fully cooperating with these investigations 
and inquiries.Antitrust and Other Litigation: Beginning in July 2015, CGMI, along with numerous other U.S. Treasury primary dealer banks, have 

been named as defendants in a number of substantially similar putative 
class actions involving allegations that they colluded to manipulate U.S. 
Treasury securities markets. The actions are based upon the defendants™ 
roles as registered primary dealers of U.S. Treasury securities and assert 

claims of alleged collusion under the antitrust laws and manipulation 
under the Commodity Exchange Act. These actions were filed in the United 
States District Court for the Southern District of New York, the Northern 

District of Illinois, the Southern District of Alabama and the District of the 
Virgin Islands.
In December 2015, the cases were consolidated before Judge Paul G. Gardephe in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New 
York by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. Additional information 

relating to these actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
number: 15-MD-2673 (S.D.N.Y.) (Gardephe, J.).
Payments required in settlement agreements described above have been 
made or are covered by existing litigation accruals.293Citigroup expects to amend its Registration Statement on Form S-3 with 
the SEC (File No. 33-192302) to add its wholly owned subsidiary, Citigroup 
Global Markets Holdings Inc. (CGMHI), as a co-registrant. Any securities 
issued by CGMHI under the Form S-3 will be fully and unconditionally 
guaranteed by Citigroup.The following are the Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 
and 2013, Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 and Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows for the 
years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 for Citigroup Inc., the parent holding company (Citigroup parent company), CGMHI, other Citigroup 
subsidiaries and eliminations and total consolidating adjustments. ﬁOther 
Citigroup subsidiaries and eliminationsﬂ includes all other subsidiaries of 
Citigroup, intercompany eliminations and income (loss) from discontinued 
operations. ﬁConsolidating adjustmentsﬂ includes Citigroup parent company 
elimination of distributed and undistributed income of subsidiaries and 
investment in subsidiaries.These Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements have been prepared and presented in accordance with SEC Regulation S-X Rule 3-10, ﬁFinancial 
Statements of Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities Registered or 
Being Registered.ﬂThese Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements schedules are presented for purposes of additional analysis, but should be considered 
in relation to the Consolidated Financial Statements of Citigroup taken 
as a whole.294Year ended December 31, 2015
In millions of dollarsCitigroup parent companyCGMHI
Other Citigroup subsidiaries and eliminationsConsolidating adjustmentsCitigroup consolidatedRevenues$13,500$Š
$Š$(13,500)$Š
94,389
54,153Š58,551
’
2,880272
(3,152)ŠŠ4,563997
6,361Š11,921
’
(475)1,295
(820)ŠŠNet interest revenue$(1,199)$2,369
$45,460$Š$46,630
$Š$4,854
$6,994$Š$11,848
’
Š214
(214)ŠŠ1,01210,365
(5,369)Š6,008
’
(1,733)(8,709)
10,442ŠŠ3,294426
8,148Š11,868
’
(3,054)1,079
1,975ŠŠTotal non-interest revenues
$(481)$8,229
$21,976$Š$29,724
Total revenues, net of interest expense
$11,820$10,598
$67,436$(13,500)$76,354
Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$Š$Š
$7,913$Š$7,913
Operating expenses


$(58)$5,003
$16,824$Š$21,769
’
59Š
(59)ŠŠ
2711,948
19,627Š21,846
’
2471,164
(1,411)ŠŠTotal operating expenses
$519$8,115
$34,981$Š$43,615
Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in  undistributed income of subsidiaries$11,301$2,483
$24,542$(13,500)$24,826

(1,340)537
8,243Š7,440
4,601Š
Š(4,601)Š
Income (loss) from continuing operations$17,242$1,946
$16,299$(18,101)$17,386
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
ŠŠ
(54)Š(54)
Net income (loss) before attribution of noncontrolling interests$17,242$1,946
$16,245$(18,101)$17,332
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interestsŠ9
81Š90Net income (loss) after attribution of noncontrolling interests$17,242$1,937
$16,164$(18,101)$17,242
Comprehensive income$(6,128)$(125)$(6,367)$6,492$(6,128)
Comprehensive income$11,114$1,812
$9,797$(11,609)$11,114
295Year ended December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsCitigroup parent companyCGMHI
Other Citigroup subsidiaries and eliminationsConsolidating adjustmentsCitigroup consolidatedRevenues⁄
⁄⁄
˛˜
⁄
’
˛˝˝
⁄⁄
⁄
’

⁄⁄Net interest revenue
⁄
⁄
⁄
’
⁄
⁄⁄
⁄
’

⁄⁄
⁄
’

⁄⁄Total non-interest revenues

⁄
Total revenues, net of interest expense


Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
⁄⁄
⁄
Operating expenses



⁄
’
⁄
⁄⁄

⁄
’
˜˛˜
⁄⁄Total operating expenses

⁄
Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in  undistributed income of subsidiaries


⁄
⁄
⁄Income (loss) from continuing operations
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
⁄⁄
‡˜…⁄‡˜…Net income (loss) before attribution of noncontrolling interests
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests⁄
⁄Net income (loss) after attribution of noncontrolling interests
Comprehensive income


Comprehensive income
296Year ended December 31, 2013
In millions of dollarsCitigroup parent companyCGMHI
Other Citigroup subsidiaries and eliminationsConsolidating 
adjustmentsCitigroup 
consolidatedRevenues⁄
⁄⁄
˛˝
⁄
’

⁄⁄
⁄
’

⁄⁄Net interest revenue
⁄
⁄
⁄
’
⁄
⁄⁄
⁄
’

⁄⁄
⁄
’

⁄⁄Total non-interest revenues

⁄
Total revenues, net of interest expense


Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
⁄
⁄
Operating expenses



⁄
’
⁄
⁄⁄

⁄
’

⁄⁄Total operating expenses

⁄
Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in  undistributed income of subsidiaries


⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄Income (loss) from continuing operations
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
⁄⁄
⁄Net income (loss) before attribution of noncontrolling interests
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests⁄
˜˚˜⁄Net income (loss) after attribution of noncontrolling interests
Comprehensive income

Comprehensive income
297December 31, 2015
In millions of dollarsCitigroup parent companyCGMHI
Other Citigroup subsidiaries and eliminationsConsolidating adjustmentsCitigroup consolidatedAssets$Š$592$20,308$Š$20,900
’
1241,403(1,527)
ŠŠ
Š178,17841,497
Š219,675
’
Š15,035(15,035)
ŠŠ
(8)124,731125,233
Š249,956
’
1,0321,765(2,797)
ŠŠ484402342,069
Š342,955

Š1,068616,549
Š617,617
’
ŠŠ
ŠŠŠ
Š(3)(12,623)
Š(12,626)

$Š$1,065$603,926$Š$604,991
$104,405$Š$(104,405)$Š$Š
221,362Š
Š(221,362)
Š‡˛…25,81936,860230,054
Š292,733
’
58,20730,737(88,944)
ŠŠTotal assets
$411,425$390,768$1,150,379$(221,362)$1,731,210
Liabilities and equity
$Š$Š$907,887$Š$907,887
’
ŠŠ
ŠŠŠŠ122,45924,037
Š146,496
’
18522,042(22,227)
ŠŠ
Š62,38655,126
Š117,512
’
1,0362,045(3,081)
ŠŠ14618820,745
Š21,079
’
Š34,916(34,916)
ŠŠ141,9142,53056,831
Š201,275
’
Š51,171(51,171)
ŠŠ36,453Š(36,453)
ŠŠ
3,56055,48254,827
Š113,869
’
6,27410,967(17,241)
ŠŠ221,85726,582196,015(221,362)223,092
Total liabilities and equity
$411,425$390,768$1,150,379$(221,362)$1,731,210
‡˛…Other assets

298December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsCitigroup parent companyCGMHI
Other Citigroup subsidiaries and eliminationsConsolidating adjustmentsCitigroup consolidatedAssets⁄⁄
’

⁄⁄
⁄
⁄
’
⁄
⁄⁄

⁄
’

⁄⁄
⁄

⁄
⁄
’
⁄⁄
⁄⁄⁄
⁄
⁄

⁄⁄
⁄⁄⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄‡˛…
⁄
’

⁄⁄Total assets

Liabilities and equity
⁄⁄⁄
’
⁄⁄
⁄⁄⁄⁄
⁄
’

⁄⁄

⁄
’

⁄⁄
⁄
’
⁄
⁄⁄
⁄
’
⁄
⁄⁄⁄
⁄⁄

⁄
’

⁄⁄
Total liabilities and equity

‡˛…Other assets

299Year ended December 31, 2015
In millions of dollarsCitigroup parent companyCGMHI
Other Citigroup subsidiaries and eliminationsConsolidating adjustmentsCitigroup consolidatedNet cash provided by (used in) operating activities of continuing operations$27,825$12,336$(424)$Š$39,737
Cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations$Š$(4)$(242,358)$Š$(242,362)
Š53141,417
Š141,470

237Š81,810
Š82,047
Š(8,414)23,902
Š15,488
ŠŠ1,353
Š1,353
ŠŠ9,610
Š9,610ŠŠ5,932
Š5,932
ŠŠ(18,929)
Š(18,929)
Š8,03714,858
Š22,895
’
(35,548)1,04434,504
ŠŠ3(101)(2,523)
Š(2,621)
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations$(35,308)$615$49,576$Š$14,883
Cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations$(1,253)$Š$Š$Š$(1,253)
6,227Š
ŠŠ6,227
(5,452)Š
ŠŠ(5,452)

127(139)(8,212)
Š(8,224)
’
Š12,557(12,557)
ŠŠŠŠ8,555
Š8,555Š(27,442)
500Š(26,942)
(845)(1,737)(34,674)
Š(37,256)
’
9,1064,054(13,160)
ŠŠ(428)Š
ŠŠ(428)Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities of continuing operations$7,482$(12,707)$(59,548)$Š$(64,773)

$Š$Š$(1,055)$Š$(1,055)
Change in cash and due from banks$(1)$244$(11,451)$Š$(11,208)
Cash and due from banks at beginning of period1251,75130,232
Š32,108
Cash and due from banks at end of period$124$1,995$18,781$Š$20,900
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for continuing operations

$111$175$4,692$Š$4,978

4,9162,3464,769
Š12,031
Non-cash investing activities

$Š$Š$(9,063)$Š$(9,063)

ŠŠ(1,402)
Š(1,402)

ŠŠ
(223)Š(223)ŠŠ
(404)Š(404)
ŠŠ28,600
Š28,600

ŠŠ
276Š276Non-cash financing activities

$Š$Š$(4,673)$Š$(4,673)
300Year ended December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsCitigroup parent companyCGMHI
Other Citigroup subsidiaries and eliminationsConsolidating adjustmentsCitigroup consolidatedNet cash provided by (used in) operating activities of continuing operations

⁄
Cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations⁄
⁄
˝˛˝˜
⁄

⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄⁄
⁄
⁄⁄
⁄⁄⁄
⁄
⁄⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄
’

⁄⁄
⁄
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations

⁄
Cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations
⁄⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄⁄
⁄
⁄⁄


⁄’
⁄
⁄⁄⁄⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄

⁄
’

⁄⁄
⁄
⁄⁄⁄
‡˛…⁄Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities of continuing operations

⁄

⁄⁄
⁄
Change in cash and due from banks
⁄
Cash and due from banks at beginning of period
⁄
Cash and due from banks at end of period
⁄
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for continuing operations



⁄


⁄
Non-cash investing activities

⁄⁄
⁄

⁄⁄
⁄

⁄⁄
⁄Non-cash financing activities

⁄⁄
⁄

⁄⁄
⁄
⁄⁄
⁄301Year ended December 31, 2013
In millions of dollarsCitigroup parent companyCGMHI
Other Citigroup subsidiaries and eliminationsConsolidating adjustmentsCitigroup consolidatedNet cash provided by (used in) operating activities of continuing operations

⁄
Cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄

⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄⁄
⁄

⁄⁄
⁄⁄
⁄’

⁄⁄˝
⁄Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations

⁄
Cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations
⁄⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄⁄⁄
⁄⁄
⁄
⁄⁄

⁄’
⁄‡˜˚˜…
˜˚˜⁄⁄⁄⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄
⁄’

⁄⁄
⁄
⁄⁄⁄
‡˛…⁄Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities of continuing operations

⁄

⁄⁄
⁄
Discontinued operations⁄Net cash used in discontinued operations⁄⁄‡˛˚…
⁄‡˛˚…
Change in cash and due from banks
⁄
Cash and due from banks at beginning of period
⁄
Cash and due from banks at end of period
⁄
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for continuing operations


‡˜˚…
⁄


⁄
Non-cash investing activities

⁄⁄
⁄

⁄⁄
⁄

⁄⁄
⁄Non-cash financing activities

⁄⁄
⁄
302Citi uses the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for its operations in Venezuela. On February 17, 2016, the Venezuelan government announced 
changes to its foreign exchange controls. Based on this announcement, 
Citi expects to begin using the SIMADI rate in the first quarter of 2016 to 
remeasure its net bolivar-denominated monetary assets, despite the possibly 
limited availability of U.S. dollars (notwithstanding the fact that it has been 
described as a free floating rate) and although the new SIMADI rate may 
not necessarily be reflective of economic reality. Re-measurement of Citi™s bolivar-denominated assets and liabilities due to changes in the exchange 
rate is recorded in earnings. At the expected minimum new SIMADI rate of 
202 bolivars per U.S. dollar, Citi estimates that it will incur an approximate 
$172 million foreign currency loss in the first quarter of 2016, which could 
increase if the bolivar continues to devalue in the new SIMADI market. 
Additionally, Citi expects its revenues and expenses will be translated at the 
SIMADI rate beginning in the first quarter of 2016. Because the new foreign 
exchange control rules have not yet been officially published and are thus 
not yet effective, however, the impact to Citi™s results of operations as a result 
of the February 17th announcement is not yet certain.3032015˜˚˛˝In millions of dollars, except per share amountsFourthThirdSecondFirst

Revenues, net of interest expense
$18,456$18,692$19,470$19,736


11,13410,66910,92810,884


2,5141,8361,6481,915

Income from continuing operations before income taxes$4,808$6,187$6,894$6,937

1,4031,8812,0362,120

Income from continuing operations$3,405$4,306$4,858$4,817


(45)(10)6(5)
‡˛…
)‡˜˜)Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$3,360$4,296$4,864$4,812

2551842

Citigroup™s net income
$3,335$4,291$4,846$4,770

Earnings per share (1)Basic
$1.04$1.36$1.51$1.51

1.021.361.521.51
˛ƒ˜˝
Diluted

1.031.361.511.51
˛ƒ˜˜
1.021.351.511.51

Common stock price per share
55.8760.3457.3954.26

49.8849.0051.5246.95

51.7549.6155.2451.52

0.050.050.050.01
˚ƒ˚˛˚ƒ˚˛˚ƒ˚˛˚ƒ˚˛
’Ł
ƒ
[End of Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements]3042015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙

0.95%

“˛‘8.1

“˜‘7.9
€
“˙‘11.9

“˝‘3.0
“˛‘


“˜‘

“˙‘

“˝‘
2015˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙In millions of dollars at year end except ratios
Average 
interest rateAverage 
balance—

—
—

—
0.44%$46,664
ƒƒ
0.48249,498


“˜‘1.19198,733
˜˝˙⁄š˙˚
Total
0.76%$494,895
ƒ’˙’⁄˜˛’ƒ
“˛‘

“˜‘

In millions of dollars at  
December 31, 2015
Under 3 monthsOver 3 to 6 monthsOver 6 to 12 monthsOver 12 monthsOver $100,000
$14,317$639$709$2,007
3,8803765805
Over $250,000
$13,728$264$297$1,625
3,864Š57711
305Citi is subject to regulation under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as applicable laws in the other jurisdictions in which it does business.Citigroup is a registered bank holding company and financial holding 
company and is regulated and supervised by the Federal Reserve Board. 
Citigroup™s nationally chartered subsidiary banks, including Citibank, are 
regulated and supervised by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
(OCC) and its state-chartered depository institution by the relevant state™s 
banking department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
(FDIC). The FDIC also has examination authority for banking subsidiaries 
whose deposits it insures. Overseas branches of Citibank are regulated and 
supervised by the Federal Reserve Board and OCC and overseas subsidiary 
banks by the Federal Reserve Board. These overseas branches and subsidiary 
banks are also regulated and supervised by regulatory authorities in the host 
countries. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) 
regulates consumer financial products and services. For more information 
on U.S. and foreign regulation affecting or potentially affecting Citi and its 
subsidiaries, see ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ above.Citi, including its banking subsidiaries, is subject to regulatory limitations, 
including requirements for banks to maintain reserves against deposits, 
requirements as to risk-based capital and leverage (see ﬁCapital Resourcesﬂ 
above and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), restrictions 
on the types and amounts of loans that may be made and the interest that 
may be charged, and limitations on investments that can be made and 
services that can be offered. The Federal Reserve Board may also expect Citi 
to commit resources to its subsidiary banks in certain circumstances. Citi 
is also subject to anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws, 
including standards for verifying client identification at account opening and 
obligations to monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities.Citi conducts securities underwriting, brokerage and dealing activities 
in the U.S. through Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (CGMI), its primary 
broker-dealer, and other broker-dealer subsidiaries, which are subject to 
regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the 
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and certain exchanges. Citi conducts 
similar securities activities outside the U.S., subject to local requirements, 
through various subsidiaries and affiliates, principally Citigroup Global 
Markets Limited in London (CGML), which is regulated principally by the 
U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, and Citigroup Global Markets Japan 
Inc. in Tokyo, which is regulated principally by the Financial Services 
Agency of Japan.Citi also has subsidiaries that are members of futures exchanges. In the U.S., CGMI is a member of the principal U.S. futures exchanges, and Citi 
has subsidiaries that are registered as futures commission merchants and 
commodity pool operators with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 

(CFTC). Citibank, CGMI, Citigroup Energy Inc. and CGML, also are registered 
as swap dealers with the CFTC. CGMI is also subject to SEC and CFTC rules 
that specify uniform minimum net capital requirements. Compliance 
with these rules could limit those operations of CGMI that require the 
intensive use of capital and also limits the ability of broker-dealers to 

transfer large amounts of capital to parent companies and other affiliates. 
See also ﬁCapital Resourcesﬂ and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for a further discussion of capital considerations of Citi™s 

non-banking subsidiaries.Transactions between Citi™s U.S. subsidiary depository institutions and their 
non-bank affiliates are regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, and are 
generally required to be on arm™s-length terms. See also ﬁManaging Global 
RiskŠLiquidity Riskﬂ above.The financial services industry is highly competitive. Citi™s competitors 
include a variety of financial services and advisory companies. Citi competes 
for clients and capital (including deposits and funding in the short- and 
long-term debt markets) with some of these competitors globally and with 
others on a regional or product basis. Citi™s competitive position depends 
on many factors, including the value of Citi™s brand name, reputation, the 
types of clients and geographies served, the quality, range, performance, 
innovation and pricing of products and services, the effectiveness of and 
access to distribution channels, technology advances, customer service 
and convenience, effectiveness of transaction execution, interest rates and 
lending limits, regulatory constraints and the effectiveness of sales promotion 
efforts. Citi™s ability to compete effectively also depends upon its ability to 
attract new employees and retain and motivate existing employees, while 
managing compensation and other costs. For additional information on 
competitive factors and uncertainties impacting Citi™s businesses, see ﬁRisk 
Factorsﬂ above.306Citi™s principal executive offices are currently located at 388 Greenwich Street in New York City and are the subject of a lease and fully occupied by Citi. 
Citi also has additional office space at 399 Park Avenue and 601 Lexington 
Avenue in New York City under a long-term lease and at 111 Wall Street in 
New York City under a lease of the entire building. Citibank leases a building 
in Long Island City, New York.Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc.™s principal offices are located at 
388 Greenwich Street and 390 Greenwich Street in New York City, which is 

also subject to a lease and fully occupied by Citi.Citigroup™s principal executive offices in 
EMEA are located at 25 and 33 Canada Square in London™s Canary Wharf, with both buildings subject to 

long-term leases. Citi is the largest tenant of these buildings.In Asia, Citi™s principal executive offices are in leased premises located 
at Citibank Plaza in Hong Kong. Citi also has significant leased premises 
in Singapore and Japan. Citi has major or full ownership interests in 
country headquarters locations in Shanghai, Seoul, Kuala Lumpur, 

Manila and Mumbai.Citi™s principal executive offices in Mexico, which also serve as the 
headquarters of Banamex, are located in Mexico City. Citi™s principal 

executive offices for Latin America (other than Mexico) are located in 
leased premises located in Miami.Citi also owns or leases over 63 million square feet of real estate in 101 countries, consisting of over 9,400 properties.Citi continues to evaluate its global real estate footprint and space requirements and may determine from time to time that certain of its 
premises are no longer necessary. There is no assurance that Citi will be 

able to dispose of any excess premises or that it will not incur charges 
in connection with such dispositions, which could be material to Citi™s 

operating results in a given period.Citi has developed programs for its properties to achieve long-term energy efficiency objectives and reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to 
lessen its impact on climate change. These activities could help to mitigate, 
but will not eliminate, Citi™s potential risk from future climate change 

regulatory requirements.For further information concerning leases, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human 
Rights Act of 2012 (Section 219), which added Section 13(r) to the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Citi is required to disclose in its annual 
or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of its affiliates knowingly 
engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or with 
individuals or entities that are subject to sanctions under U.S. law. Disclosure 
is generally required even where the activities, transactions or dealings were 
conducted in compliance with applicable law. Citi has previously disclosed 
reportable activities pursuant to Section 219 for the first and second quarters 
of 2015 in its related quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.In addition to Citi™s prior disclosures, a subsidiary of Citi, Banco Nacional 
de México (Banamex), identified that it inadvertently processed five domestic 
funds transfers to the Embassy of Iran in Mexico during the third quarter of 
2015. The total value of these five funds transfers was approximately MXP 
3,320 (approximately $177.00). Three of the payments were for visa services 
that are exempt under Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) regulations 

and two were for consular services that going forward would be permissible 
under OFAC General License H for Banamex as a non-U.S. subsidiary of 

Citi. The transactions, in aggregate, resulted in approximately MXP 10 
(approximately $0.53) in revenue for Banamex.307
None.The following table summarizes Citi™s equity security repurchases, which consisted entirely of common stock repurchases, during the three months 
ended December 31, 2015:In millions, except per share amounts
Total shares 
purchasedAverage 
price paid per shareApproximate dollar value of shares that 
may yet be purchased under the plan or programsOctober 20158.7$51.35
$3,836
ŠŠN/ANovember 2015
8.153.843,399ŠŠN/ADecember 201514.652.482,634ŠŠN/AAmounts as of December 31, 2015
31.4$52.52
$2,634
“˛‘



“˜‘



In addition to Board of Directors™ approval, Citi™s ability to pay common 
stock dividends substantially depends on regulatory approval, including 
an annual regulatory review of the results of the CCAR process required by 
the Federal Reserve Board and the supervisory stress tests required under 
the Dodd-Frank Act. See ﬁRisk FactorsŠRegulatory Risksﬂ above. For 
information on the ability of Citigroup™s subsidiary depository institutions 
and non-bank subsidiaries to pay dividends, see Note 19 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. Any dividend on Citi™s outstanding common stock 
would also need to be made in compliance with Citi™s obligations to its 
outstanding preferred stock.308The following graph and table compare the cumulative total return on Citi™s common stock, which is listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol ﬁCﬂ and 
held by 81,805 common stockholders of record as of January 31, 2016, with 
the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Financial 
Index over the five-year period through December 31, 2015. The graph 
and table assume that $100 was invested on December 31, 2010 in Citi™s 
common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Financial Index, and that 
all dividends were reinvested.050100150200Citigroup
S&P 500 IndexS&P Financial Index
For the years ended201520102011201220132014€‰
ˆ›€›






309Citigroup™s executive officers as of February 26, 2016 are:NameAgePosition and office held
’˚ˆ‰‹⁄
ˆ‰‹⁄
€†
˘’’
š˚ˆ‰‹⁄
š˙ˆ‰‹⁄
’˙
˝•ˆ‰‹⁄
š˜

’˜

š˚ˆ‰‹⁄
†’˛
ž’•
žš’†
Each executive officer has held executive or management positions with Citigroup for at least five years, except that: Ms. Desoer joined Citi in April 2014. Prior to joining Citi, Ms. Desoer had a 35-year career at Bank of America, where she was President, Bank of 
America Home Loans, a Global Technology & Operations Executive, and 
President, Consumer Products, among other roles.  Mr. Weerasinghe joined Citi in June 2012. Prior to joining Citi, 
Mr. Weerasinghe was Senior Partner at Shearman & Sterling.Citi has a Code of Conduct that maintains its commitment to the highest 
standards of conduct. The Code of Conduct is supplemented by a Code 
of Ethics for Financial Professionals (including accounting, controllers, 
financial reporting operations, financial planning and analysis, treasury, 
tax, strategy and M&A, investor relations and regional/product finance 
professionals and administrative staff) that applies worldwide. The Code of 
Ethics for Financial Professionals applies to Citi™s principal executive officer, 
principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. Amendments 
and waivers, if any, to the Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals will be 
disclosed on Citi™s website, www.citigroup.com.Both the Code of Conduct and the Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals can be found on the Citi website by clicking on ﬁAbout Us,ﬂ 
and then ﬁCorporate Governance.ﬂ Citi™s Corporate Governance Guidelines 

can also be found there, as well as the charters for the Audit Committee, the 
Ethics and Culture Committee, the Nomination, Governance and Public 
Affairs Committee, the Personnel and Compensation Committee and the Risk 
Management Committee of the Board. These materials are also available 
by writing to Citigroup Inc., Corporate Governance, 601 Lexington Avenue, 

19th Floor, New York, New York 10022.
Chief Executive OfficerCitigroup Inc.Former President and CEO
BMO Financial Corporation and 
Former U.S. Country Head of BMO 
Financial GroupCo-Founder and Partner
Atrevida Partners, LLCDean, New York University
Stern School of BusinessChairman, Retired
Roche Holding Ltd.Operating Executive
The Carlyle GroupChief Executive Officer, Retired  

Citibank, N.A. and
Vice Chairman, Retired
Citigroup Inc.Chairman
Citigroup Inc.Operating Partner
General Atlantic LLCPresident
Rockefeller FoundationFormer President
Federal Reserve Bank of PhiladelphiaSenior Research Scholar
Columbia University School of International 
and Public AffairsVice Chair
Solera Capital, LLCChief Executive Officer, Retired
Pacific Investment Management Company 
(PIMCO)Former Chairman and CEO Ernst & YoungDirector, Center for the Study of Globalization and 
Professor in the Field of International 
Economics and Politics, 
Yale University310The Directors of Citigroup listed below executed a power of attorney appointing John C. Gerspach their attorney-in-fact, empowering him to sign 
this report on their behalf.




€


€†
John C. GerspachPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 26th day 
of February, 2016.Citigroup Inc.(Registrant)John C. Gerspach
Chief Financial OfficerPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 26th day of February, 2016.Citigroup™s Principal Executive Officer and a Director:Michael L. CorbatCitigroup™s Principal Financial Officer:John C. Gerspach
Citigroup™s Principal Accounting Officer:Jeffrey R. WalshThe Directors of Citigroup listed below executed a power of attorney appointing John C. Gerspach their attorney-in-fact, empowering him to sign 
this report on their behalf.


†


€



€†


John C. Gerspach311311312312Stockholder Information
Produced by Citi Graphic Communications.
The cover and editorial section of this annual report are printed on McCoy, manufactured by Sappi North America with 10% PCW and FSC
®  Chain of Custody Certi˜ed. 100% of the electricity used to manufacture McCoy is Green-e
® certi˜ed renewable energy.
The ˜nancial section of this annual report is printed on FSC
® certi˜ed Accent Opaque from International Paper. International Paper™s U.S. mills 
are certi˜ed to the FSC, PEFC and SFI
® Chain of Custody standards.
Citi, Citi and Arc Design and other marks used herein are service marks of Citigroup Inc. or its af˜liates, used and registered throughout the world.
Apple, the Apple logo and iPhone are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Apple Watch and Apple Pay are 
 trademarks of Apple Inc.
Cover photograph Š A rendering of 388 Greenwich Street in New York City, which is now Citi™s Global Headquarters and undergoing a renovation.
Citigroup common stock is listed on the NYSE under the 
ticker symbol ﬁCﬂ and on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the 
Mexico Stock Exchange. Citigroup preferred stock Series AA, 
C, J, K, L and S are also listed on the NYSE.
Because Citigroup™s common stock is listed on the NYSE, 
the Chief Executive Of˜cer is required to make an annual 
certi˜cation to the NYSE stating that he was not aware of 
any violation by Citigroup of the corporate governance listing 

standards of the NYSE. The annual certi˜cation to that effect 
was made to the NYSE on May 20, 2015.
As of January 31, 2016, Citigroup had approximately 81,805 
common stockholders of record. This ˜gure does not 
represent the actual number of bene˜cial owners of common 
stock because shares are frequently held in ﬁstreet nameﬂ 

by securities dealers and others for the bene˜t of individual 
owners who may vote the shares.
Transfer Agent
Stockholder address changes and inquiries regarding stock 
transfers, dividend replacement, 1099-DIV reporting and 
lost securities for common and preferred stock should be 

directed to:
Computershare
 P.O. Box 43078
 
Providence, RI 02940-3078
 Telephone No. 781 575 4555
 Toll-free No. 888 250 3985
 
E-mail address: shareholder@computershare.com
 Web address: www.computershare.com/investor
Exchange Agent
Holders of Golden State Bancorp, Associates First Capital 

Corporation, Citicorp or Salomon Inc. common stock should 
arrange to exchange their certi˜cates by contacting:
Computershare
 P.O. Box 43078
 Providence, RI 02940-3078
 Telephone No. 781 575 4555
 
Toll-free No. 888 250 3985
 E-mail address: shareholder@computershare.com
 Web address: www.computershare.com/investor
On May 9, 2011, Citi effected a 1-for-10 reverse stock split. 
All Citi common stock certi˜cates issued prior to that date 
must be exchanged for new certi˜cates by contacting 

Computershare at the address noted above.
Citi™s 2015 Form 10-K ˜led with the SEC, as well as other 
annual and quarterly reports, are available from Citi 

Document Services toll free at 877 936 2737 (outside the 
United States at 716 730 8055), by e-mailing a request to 
docserve@citi.com or by writing to:
Citi Document Services
 540 Crosspoint Parkway
 Getzville, NY 14068
Stockholder Inquiries
Information about Citi, including quarterly earnings 
releases and ˜lings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 

Commission, can be accessed via Citi™s website at 
 www.citigroup.com. Stockholder inquiries can also be 

directed by e-mail to shareholderrelations@citi.com.
www.citigroup.com
© 2016 Citigroup Inc.
1378702
 CIT24024
 03/16
Take a closer look at Citi with 
the digital Annual Report: 
 citi.com/annualreport
