2012 Annual Report
˜˚˛˝



˜˚˛˝˙ˆ




˜˚˛˝



˜˚˛˝˙ˆ




3Financial Summary
In billions of dollars, except per-share amounts, ratios and direct staff
2012
2011
2010
Citicorp Net Revenues
$71.0
$72.1
$74.3
Citi Holdings Net Revenues
(0.8)
6.3
12.3
Citigroup Net Revenues
$70.2
$78.4
$86.6Citicorp Net Income
14.1
15.3
15.2
Citi Holdings Net Income
(6.6)(4.2)
(4.6)
Citigroup Net Income
$7.5
$11.1
$10.6
Diluted EPS Š Net Income
2.44
3.63
3.54
Diluted EPS Š Income from Continuing Operations
2.49
3.59
3.55
Citicorp Assets
1,709
1,649
1,601Citi Holdings Assets
156225
313
Citigroup Assets
$1,865
$1,874
$1,914
Deposits
$930.6
$865.9
$845.0
Citigroup Stockholders™ Equity
$189.0
$177.8
$163.5
Tier 1 Capital Ratio
14.1
%13.6
%12.9
%Tier 1 Common Ratio
12.7
%11.8%10.8
%Book Value per Share
$61.57
$60.70
$56.15
Common Shares Outstanding (millions)
3,028.9
2,923.9
2,905.8
Market Capitalization
$120
$77$137
Direct Staff (thousands)
259
266
260
Totals may not sum due to rounding.
4Letter to Shareholders
Dear Fellow Shareholders,
2012 was a momentous year for our company Š our 200th, a 
milestone few institutions ever reach. We celebrated on every 
continent and in virtually every country, highlighted by our 
Global Community Day on June 16, the anniversary of our 

founding. On that day 200 years later, more than 110,000 of 
our people, in 93 countries, celebrated our anniversary by 
giving back to the communities we serve.
I™ve been with Citi or its predecessors my entire career Š 
nearly 30 years Š and I was especially proud to be a part of 
our rich legacy on that day. It was a stirring reminder of the 

talent and character of our dedicated people, whom I am 
proud to lead.
I welcome the chance to put 2012 into perspective and, more 
important, to outline my agenda for 2013 and beyond.
Our anniversary was a terri˜c celebration Š but last year 
also provided its share of disappointments. We had some 

signi˜cant charges throughout the year that hurt our bottom 
line. Some we took in order to continue putting legacy issues 
behind us. And we believe that the repositioning actions 
announced in December will help us in the long run as we 
increase the focus and ef˜ciency of our operations. Our core 

operating performance continues to improve, but it™s clear Š 
especially from our fourth quarter results Š that we still have 
work to do.
When I became CEO in October, I set myself three main 
objectives to accomplish by the beginning of the year: conduct 
business reviews and prepare the 2013 budget; select my 
management team; and ˜nalize and submit our capital plan 

to our regulators. Throughout those months, I also spent 
a good amount of time meeting with our stakeholders: 
clients, investors, regulators and, of course, our people. The 

conversations were almost universally encouraging about our 
franchise and about the direction of this historic ˜rm.
These important tasks now complete, we look ahead to 
building on Citi™s great heritage. Let me, then, describe to you 
where I think we are today, lay out where we want to go and 
explain my plan for how we™ll get there.
The state of our ˜rm is in many ways very strong. Our strategy 
is well-aligned with three dominant, long-term secular trends: 
globalization, urbanization and digitization. 
Growth has shifted from being largely a phenomenon in the 
developed world to being increasingly concentrated in the 

emerging markets. In fact, between 2008 and 2012, 45% of 
the world™s growth occurred in just one country: China. We™re 
ahead of our peers in shifting toward these fast-growing 

markets because no other bank can match our presence and 
experience. And we™re in a position to seize key opportunities 
as our competitors pull back. Not only do we have the most 
extensive global network of any bank, we also bring to the table 

decades of experience in some of the world™s key markets.
More and more people are moving into cities, and every year 
the share of GDP produced in urban centers grows. Today, 

fully 80% of the world™s GDP is generated in urban centers. 
And cities are not re˚ected just in our name Š they™re in 
our blood. We™ve identi˜ed over 150 cities Š which together 

produce 32% of global GDP Š that ˜t our business model and 
represent where we think many of the coming opportunities 
will emerge. We already have a presence in more than 80% 

of them, with plans for the rest. As a company, we™ve often 
spoken of our presence in more than 100 countries Š which is 
vital to our success Š but in the future, you™ll hear us talking 

more about the cities.
Finally, digitization is not just about websites and apps and 
other customer-facing elements Š though these are very 

important. Digitization will continue to revolutionize our 
entire industry, front of˜ce to back, and transform the way 
clients Š from individuals to big institutions Š interact with 

us and utilize our offerings. We™ve done a great deal around 
Smart Banking on the consumer side Š and are recognized 
as industry leaders Š while also building better platforms for 

our institutional clients. There™s much more to do, but we feel 
good about where we are today.
In addition to our network, we offer world-class products and 
services and employ top talent. We™ve restructured most of 
our company. In a sector that continues to deleverage, we 
began that process more than four years ago and are ahead of 

many of our peers.
˜˚˛˜˝˙ˆˇ




˛




˜˛
†“
˜˛
˛
˜˚˛˜˚˜˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˜˘
˝˙˛

˚ˆ˝

ˇ˘ˇ
ˇ
˘ˆ˘
ˇ

“‘’€
5Yet our company Š and our industry Š still face signi˜cant 
economic, political and regulatory headwinds. Growth likely 
will be uneven. There is reason for optimism that the U.S. 
recovery will pick up steam and that the emerging markets 

will regain some of their strong, pre-crisis momentum. But 
prospects for Europe remain mixed.
Politically, we™ve just lived through a year of elections and 
transitions around the globe. Public pressures Š intense during 
the crisis Š remain, showing that as an industry we still have a 
long way to go toward regaining public trust.
The regulatory challenges alone are enormous. Our bank is 
well-capitalized, even under the stricter Basel III criteria. But 
beyond capitalization, the sheer scope of regulation we now 

face is vast. One thing is certain: there™s no appetite among 
regulators for us Š or any large bank Š to grow inorganically. 
That dynamic, however, can work to our advantage. We need 

to be less concerned by mergers and acquisitions among 
our peers trying to replicate our footprint Š but we must 
be especially focused on getting the best out of the mix of 

businesses that we have.
These and other changes are rede˜ning every relationship 
this company has: with our clients and customers, with our 

regulators, with our employees and with the communities we 
serve Š and above all with you, our investors.
In addition, two legacy issues are not yet behind our company 
and will take us time to resolve.
Citi Holdings creates a disproportionate drag on net income 
and ties up a signi˜cant amount of capital. We™ve made good 

progress here. In 2012, we reduced the size of Holdings by a 
further 31%; at the end of the fourth quarter, it made up only 
8% of our balance sheet, down from a peak of about 40%. Yet 

it still represents a disproportionate 23% of our risk-weighted 
assets under Basel III. A quick, economically viable resolution 
of the remaining portfolio does not exist. I have considered 

and understand the issue in detail Š it does not make sense to 
destroy capital simply for the sake of speed. We will continue 
to manage these assets and our associated expenses in 

an economically rational way while taking advantage of all 
reasonable opportunities to reduce them more expeditiously.
Our deferred tax assets (DTA) also tie up a signi˜cant amount 
of book capital that doesn™t earn any returns Š indeed, 

moving this off our books requires that we generate earnings, 
speci˜cally in the U.S. In 2012, our DTA went in the wrong 
direction and rose by nearly $4 billion. One of my top areas of 

focus will be to begin to turn that trend around, but utilizing 
a substantial portion of our DTA will likely take longer than 
resolving Holdings.
What this means for us in practice is that about one-third of 

our capital is not available to us to generate the returns you 
expect and deserve. Thus, with the remainder, we have to be 
better than good and better even than our peers. There is no 

margin for error. My management team understands what™s 
 at stake.
I™m often asked how I would judge my tenure as CEO a success 
Š what do I want the company to look like down the road?
First, I want Citi to generate consistent, quality earnings. We™ll 
accomplish this by driving client relationships and building 

revenues organically in our core businesses. The future of our 
franchise depends on consistently generating quality earnings 
from our core business activities. Speci˜cally, I want to see us 

generate risk-adjusted returns above our cost of capital.
Michael L. Corbat
Chief Executive Of˜cer
6Letter to Shareholders
Second, I want Citi to be known for making smart decisions 
in every aspect of our work. It is imperative that Citi be a 
˜rm with the right focus on ef˜ciencies and is smart about 
risk Š both in terms of dollars and reputation Š as well as 

investment performance and growth. And we™ll build a culture 
of accountability and judge our people on the decisions they 
make and the results they deliver Š or fail to deliver.
Third, I won™t be satis˜ed until Citi has completely rebuilt our 
credibility with all our stakeholders. Ultimately, our results will 
speak for us. My goal is for Citi to be seen around the world, 

and by all our stakeholders, as an indisputably strong and 
stable institution.
How do we get there? One word: execution.
As I said when I stepped into the role, while our core strategy 
is not changing, the intensity with which we focus on 
execution and on operational ef˜ciency will increase. We™ve 
re˜ned our management structure in ways that delegate 

authority to the appropriate levels.
Throughout my career, I have always believed that ﬁyou are 
what you measure.ﬂ I™ve set clear goals around clear metrics 
Š return on assets, return on tangible common equity and 

operating ef˜ciency Š and will hold my management team 
accountable for them. And I™ve made those targets public 
so you can monitor our progress and hold us Š and me Š 

accountable as well.
My team and I will continue to seek ways to re˜ne and 
optimize the execution of our strategy and improve operating 

ef˜ciency. As a company, we need to show expense discipline 
and be what I like to call ﬁmaniacal allocators of our 
resources.ﬂ Success depends on investing our resources in the 

right places, in the right businesses, at the right time. We can™t 
be everything to everyone. Our business model is simple and 
straightforward: to provide the best core banking products 

and services to people and institutions through leveraging our 
global footprint, which includes the world™s fastest-growing 
markets and cities.
We have a unique ability to both lead and follow our clients. 
For us, the future is all about seeing where our customers 

and clients are going to go and making sure we™re invested so 
when they get there or when they need us, we™re ready.
 From Ambition to Achievement: 
 Citi Sponsors 2012 U.S. Olympic 
 and Paralympic Teams
 Last summer, at the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic 
Games, athletes from around the world captured our hearts 

by demonstrating what could be achieved when you reach 
for your dream. But no athlete stands alone on the podium Š 
behind each is a network of supporters. In commemoration 

of Citi™s 200th anniversary, we are proud to have been the 

of˜cial bank sponsor of the U.S. Olympic Committee (USOC) 
and the 2012 U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Teams.
For our ˜rst-ever Team USA sponsorship, Citi announced a 
$500,000 donation to the USOC to launch the Every Step 

of the Way
SM program. Through activity on Facebook and 
Twitter, fans and Citi customers helped allocate the donation, 
Team Citi, from left, back row: Dominique Dawes, Gwen 
Jorgensen, Cullen Jones, Sanya Richards-Ross, Christie 

Rampone, Bob Bryan, Meb Ke˚ezighi, Mike Bryan, Danell Leyva, 

Kari Miller and Rowdy Gaines; front row: Carlos Leon and 

Amanda McGrory. 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚˛˜˝ˆ˚˛˜ˇˆ˚˛˜˜ˆ˚˛˝˘

ˇ

˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆ

ˇ˙
˛

7To build today what we already have would be, quite probably, 
impossible. In many ways, our business model becomes rarer 
every day. The rich legacy left to us by our predecessors 
presents us with a tremendous opportunity Š one that I intend 

to make the most of.
I appreciate the support and guidance of our board during my 
transition to this new role. And I™m grateful for the continued 

con˜dence of everyone who owns a share in our company. I 
view my job as CEO as being your advocate and the defender 
of your interests. I will always aspire to do what™s right for our 

company and for you.
I know that great things lie ahead for Citi. I™m proud to lead 

the company where I™ve learned so much and built my career. 
Assuming this role is the honor Š and the responsibility Š of 
a lifetime. I will do my utmost to live up to the trust you have 

placed in me.
Sincerely,
Michael L. Corbat
Chief Executive Of˜cer, Citigroup Inc.
 represented by 50 million ThankYou
® Points, to the U.S. 
Olympic and Paralympic sports programs that inspired the 
 13 U.S. Olympic and Paralympic quali˜ers, hopefuls and 
alumni that made up Team Citi. From saving lives through 
swimming lessons to providing equipment for tomorrow™s 

Paralympians, the Every Step of the Way
SM program will have 
a lasting impact on future Olympic hopefuls in communities 

across the country.
The campaign featured broadcast, print and digital 
advertising, events, promotions and retail activation.
 A variety of ads, all featuring our Team Citi athletes, 

encouraged viewers to join the Every Step of the Way
SM program at citi.com/everystep and highlighted some of 
 Citi™s most competitive and innovative banking products, 
including Mobile Check Deposit, Citibank
® Popmoney
® and 
 the ThankYou
® Points sharing app. 
Leading up to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic 
Games, Citi brought the Olympic and Paralympic spirit 

to locations across the country through the Citi Team 

USA Flag-Raising Tour. Citi customers, colleagues, local 
students and community partners had the opportunity 
to meet U.S. Olympic and Paralympic athletes, hear the 

inspirational stories and show support for Team USA.
Congratulations go to Team USA 
and Team Citi, whose members 
won a total of six gold, three 
silver and two bronze medals at 

the London 2012 Olympic and 

Paralympic Games.
 ˜˚˛˚˝˙
˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆˇ
˝˙

˝
˝˚˛˝˝ˆ˚˛˝˝˜˚˛˝˝˝˚˛˝ˆˆ˚˛˝ˆ˜˚˛˝ˆ˝
˝
˝˜ˇ
˝˜
ˇ
˝˜ˇ
˝˝ˇ

˝˝ˇ



˝ˆˇ
˘
˝ˆˇ

˝ˆˇ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˙ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˙ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˙ˇ
ˆ˙˚˛˝˙ˆ˙ˇ
˛
˚˛˝˙ˆ˙ˇ
˚˛˝˙ˆ˙ˇ˛

‘ˇ˛˛•ˇ˛˛—ˆ…˙


8Citi™s Global Consumer Banking (GCB) serves more than 
 100 million clients across the world through its unique 
footprint and capabilities, its presence in and understanding 
of local markets, and the ability to deliver a consistent and 

enhanced banking experience. 
Strategically positioned in the world™s top cities with the 
highest consumer banking growth potential, Global Consumer 

Banking operates across Citi™s four regions Š Asia Paci˜c; 
Europe, the Middle East and Africa; Latin America; and North 
America. The primary business lines are Credit Cards, Retail 

Banking, Mortgage and Commercial Banking.
The collective GCB businesses account for $337 billion in 
deposits, $295 billion in loans, $154 billion in assets under 

management in Retail Banking and approximately 4,000
1 branches worldwide.
Global Consumer Banking earnings continued to grow in 2012. 
Pretax operating earnings increased by 48% to $10.1 billion Š 

nearly half of Citi overall. Net income
2 grew 6% to $8.1 billion 
Š its highest level ever. Revenues of $40 billion, over the last 
12 months, reached a new milestone. Additionally, average 
loans grew 5% globally, with 9% international growth and 
 
2% growth in North America.
Credit Cards
Citi is the world™s largest credit card issuer, with 134 million 
accounts, $363 billion in annual purchase sales and $150 
billion in receivables across Citi Branded Cards and Citi Retail 

Services credit cards.
1 Approximately 4,000 total branches do not include ~600 Banco 
 de Chile branches. 
2 Pretax earnings minus loan loss reserve releases minus fourth 

quarter repositioning charges.
Operating in 38 countries, with more than 55 million accounts 
in circulation, 
Citi Branded Cards
 provides payment and credit 
solutions to consumers and small businesses around the 
world. The business has annual purchase sales of $292 billion 

and a loan portfolio of $111 billion. In 2012, Citi became the ˜rst 
non-domestic credit card issuer in China. New rewards credit 
cards were introduced in El Salvador, the Philippines, Taiwan, 

the United Arab Emirates and the U.S. Citi also introduced new 
co-brand cards for travelers with partners Hilton
® HHonors
TM, American Airlines AAdvantage
®, AirAsia and Thai Airways. 
Citi is continually expanding the ways in which card members 

can integrate rewards and social networking, including the 
ThankYou
® Points sharing app, which is the ˜rst application 
on Facebook that enables members to share and combine 
points. This year, Banamex was the ˜rst ˜nancial institution 
in Mexico to introduce MasterCard
® PayPass
TM, a contactless 
card payment platform. 
Citi Retail Services
 provides consumer and commercial credit 
card products, services and retail solutions to leading national 

and regional retailers across the U.S. Citi Retail Services 
serves nearly 79 million accounts for a number of iconic 
brands, including The Home Depot, Macy™s, Sears, Shell and 

ExxonMobil. In 2012, Retail Services renewed its long-standing 
relationship with CITGO, launched a product with ExxonMobil 
and announced new relationships with Of˜ceMax, Ford Motor 

Company and BrandSource. The business has purchase sales 
of $71.5 billion and a loan portfolio of $38.6 billion.
Global Consumer Banking
  Highlights
Customer Experience 
Putting the customer at the center of everything we do 
is critical to our success. GCB is focused on listening to 
customers in order to recognize their needs and provide 
genuine solutions to help reduce the complexities of their 

˜nancial lives. Our fundamental GCB performance measure 
is provided through Net Promoter Score, and we continue 
to improve.
 In the U.S., Citibank launched Plain Talk About Your 
Products, a user-friendly guide for current and prospective 

checking customers.
 Citi Commercial Bank leverages our presence in the world™s 
fastest growing cities and our global capabilities to deliver 

tailored solutions to an international client base.
9  Transfer is a joint venture between Banamex and Telcel that 
offers bank accounts to millions of customers with service 

functionality delivered entirely through mobile phones.
Citi is the world™s largest credit card issuer, with 134 million 

accounts and $150 billion in receivables across Citi Branded 

Cards and Citi Retail Services credit cards.
 CitiMortgage continued helping families stay in their 
homes throughout 2012. The Road to Recovery tour 

spanned 35 U.S. markets, offering clients one-on-one 
consultations with mortgage assistance experts.
 Citi® Price Rewind is a complimentary bene˜t that helps 
card members by automatically crediting a refund if a 
lower price is found on a purchase within 30 days.
 Citi Simplicity
® makes credit cards even easier with 
simple yet powerful features such as no annual fee, no 

late fees and no wait time for live assistance. It won 
Kiplinger™s Personal Finance
 magazine™s award for 
 Best Credit Cards for Holiday Spending in 2012.
Leveraging Our Globality 
As the pre-eminent global consumer bank 
internationally, GCB leverages best practices and 

business models to create an enhanced and seamless 

banking experience around the world. 
 Citi reorganized in 2012, creating the Global Consumer 
Banking unit with the goal of leveraging its global scale 

for local advantage to better serve our customers.
 In 2012, Citi continued to roll out common technology 
platforms, including Rainbow, our new and common 
core banking platform, as well as online and mobile 
platforms that deliver a common digital experience to 

customers globally.
10Retail Banking
Centered in the world™s top cities with high consumer banking 
growth potential, Citibank serves a full range of consumer 
banking needs, including checking and savings accounts, 

loans and small business services. The optimization of the 
Citibank branch network continued throughout 2012 to 
further concentrate its presence in major metropolitan areas 

and focus on target consumer segments. Our renowned Citi 
Smart Banking branches, with innovative technologies and 
concierge-style client services, expanded in the Philippines, 

Malaysia and the U.S.
Citi™s Banamex franchise serves close to 21 million customers 
and has a leading position in consumer lending, deposit, 

retirement and mutual fund industries in Mexico.
Citi™s wealth management business provides investment and 
˜nancial advisory services, including mutual funds, managed 

portfolios, stocks, bonds, insurance products and retirement 
solutions. Citigold
® combines banking with wealth management 
to deliver exceptional personalized service, special bene˜ts 

and preferred access to Citi™s network. Citigold International is 
dedicated to serving the needs of globally connected clients by 

offering access to multicountry ˜nancial services.
One of the only global housing lenders, 
CitiMortgage
 operates 
in 29 countries and is committed to helping clients in all 
stages of homeownership. With 2 million customers around 

the world, the business offers loans for home purchase and 
re˜nance transactions with a ˜nancing solution for almost 
every need. CitiMortgage in the U.S. continued to ˜nd 

solutions that allowed many borrowers to avoid potential 
foreclosure through government and other programs such as 
Citi™s Road to Recovery. CitiMortgage™s free SureStart
®  pre-
approves potential homeowners, allowing them to establish 
their price range before shopping for a home. During 2012, 
CitiMortgage signi˜cantly expanded sales through Citibank 

branches in the U.S. and select business partners, originating 
$58 billion in mortgages.
Citi Commercial Bank
 provides value-added banking services 
to meet the global needs of small- and medium-sized 
enterprises. It currently serves 100,000 clients with dedicated 
Relationship Managers across 30 countries. The business 

leverages Citi™s worldwide capabilities to deliver tailored 
solutions for cash management, foreign exchange, lending and 
trade, and employee banking. Citi Commercial Bank also offers 

secure web-based solutions throughout the world, enabling 
clients to manage their business operation accounts at any 
time from anywhere via the Internet.
Global Consumer Banking
In all of the 29 countries where CitiMortgage operates, dedicated staff members are committed to helping its 2 million customers 
make their homeownership dreams come true. In the U.S., CitiMortgage™s free SureStart
® preapproves potential homeowners, 
allowing them to establish a price range before shopping for a home.
11 Highlights
Digital Innovations
Citi continues to make progress toward being the bank 
of choice for digitally savvy consumer banking clients 
around the world. Enhanced mobile banking capabilities 
were introduced in 2012 throughout all key regions 
 
and now cover more than 75% of target consumer 

markets worldwide.
 Forrester Research Inc. named the redesigned Citibank 
Online experience as the top online banking site in 
 
the U.S.
 The Citibank for iPad
® app won Best Use of Digital in the 
Financial Services Sector at the Digital Impact Awards.
Citi® Private Pass
® in the U.S. offered Citi credit and debit 
card members access to more than 10,000 events across 
music, sports, dining and family entertainment.
Additional Citi Smart Banking branches, with innovative 

technologies and concierge-style client services, opened 

in the Philippines, Malaysia and the U.S.
 Citi made inroads in mobile utilization in 2012. In Asia 
Paci˜c, the region with the highest degree of mobile 

adoption industry-wide, Citi has achieved signi˜cant 
penetration among clients, ranking ˜rst among banks in 
India, Singapore, Australia and Hong Kong, according to 

recent data from Bain & Company.
 Citi™s global mobile banking solution platform was 
successfully launched throughout many Latin America 
markets, including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Peru 
 
and Venezuela.
12Citi™s Institutional Clients Group serves multinational and local 
corporations, ˜nancial institutions, governments and privately 
held businesses in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions. 
Our talented professionals build enduring relationships with 

clients and help them achieve their goals by offering a full 
suite of strategic advisory and ˜nancing products, services 
and solutions.
Corporate and Investment Banking
Citi™s Corporate and Investment Banking franchises provide 

comprehensive relationship coverage service to ensure 

the Institutional Clients Group is client driven. With our 

strong presence in numerous countries Š Citi has been in 
many markets for more than 100 years Š we leverage our 
country, sector and product expertise to deliver Citi™s global 
capabilities to clients wherever they choose to compete.
Citi™s Corporate and Investment Banking client teams are 
 organized by industry and by country. Each team comprises 
two parts: Strategic Coverage Of˜cers, who focus on 
 mergers and acquisitions and equity and related ˜nancing 
solutions; and Corporate Bankers, along with their Capital 
Markets 
 product partners and with support from our Global 
Subsidiaries Group, who deliver corporate banking/˜nance 
services to global, regional and local clients.
In 2012, Citi served as the trusted advisor for several of the 
˜nancial markets™ transformational transactions, including 

co-advisor on Express Scripts™ $34 billion acquisition of Medco 
Health Solutions; Citi provided half of the $14 billion bridge 
loan in connection with the transaction. Citi also served 

as a co-advisor on Eaton™s $12 billion acquisition of Cooper 
 Industries and was one of two banks that committed to a 
$6.75 billion senior unsecured bridge facility to ˜nance Eaton. 
In addition, Citi was lead advisor on AMC Entertainment™s sale 

to China™s Dalian Wanda Group for $3 billion. This transaction 
represents the largest outbound acquisition by a private 
 Chinese company.
Capital Markets Origination
Citi™s Capital Markets Origination business, focused on raising 

debt and equity, is the ˜rst choice among issuers for their 
underwriting needs due to an unmatched global footprint, 
diverse range of products and track record of executing 

transactions for its clients amid unprecedented market 

conditions. Issuers turn to Citi for inaugural issuances; repeat 

business; and their largest, landmark transactions, strongly 
demonstrating Citi™s structuring and execution expertise to 
meet client needs. In the equity capital markets over the last 
year, Citi led the market both in terms of proceeds raised and 
in innovation in the capital markets. Citi is the clear choice 

for debt capital markets transactions, based on its continued 
underwriting leadership in transactions across a broad range 
of currencies and markets, displaying consistent dominance 

and success in navigating challenging ˜xed income conditions.
In 2012, Citi led several important transactions for our clients, 
including Petrobras™ $7 billion multitranche bond offering Š 

the largest-ever emerging market corporate bond offering in 
the international market Š and was the only ˜rm to lead the 
˜ve discrete equity transactions for the sale of AIG by the U.S. 

Treasury. Citi was joint bookrunner on the $850 million private 
placement project bond for Topaz Solar Farms, a $2.4 billion, 
550 megawatt solar project being developed by MidAmerican 

Energy Holdings Company, the diversi˜ed energy company 
majority owned by Berkshire Hathaway. When completed, 
Topaz will be the largest solar project in the U.S. Citi advised 
Institutional Clients Group
 Highlights
 Citi Transaction Services was named Best Transaction 
Banking House by 
Euromoney
 for the third year in a 

row and for nine of the last 11 years overall and received 
the Top Rated Agent Bank recognition in the 
Global 
Custodian
 Agent Banks in Major Markets Survey for the 
 
third year in a row.
 International Financing Review
 awarded Citi Best 
 North America Equity House of the Year, Emerging 
EMEA Bond House, U.S. Investment Grade Bond House, 

Americas Structured Finance House and Americas 

Liability Management House.
 Citi is the largest corporate card issuer in the U.S. as 
ranked by 
The Nilson Report
 for the third year in a row 
and is the ˜rst international bank to offer commercial 

card programs in China.
Citi™s China Desk initiative, which sends senior Chinese 
bankers to strategic locations to serve Chinese companies 

doing business in international markets, now is active in 

Algeria, Dubai, Hong Kong, Johannesburg, London, New York, 

Nigeria and Singapore.
13  
Citi Private Bank was named Best Global Private Bank 
for the third year in a row and also was named Best 

Private Bank for Customer Service by two Financial 
Times publications: 
The Banker
 and Professional 
 Wealth Management
. Citi Private Bank was awarded 
Spear™s 
Wealth Management 
Award for Private Bank of the Year in Europe.
 
Citi Private Bank in Asia Paci˜c was named Private Bank 
of the Year by 
AsiaRisk and Best Wealth Management 

House by 
The Asset
 for the third year in a row.
 Citi was awarded Best Overall Private Banking Services 
in Latin America in 
Euromoney™s
 Private Banking poll.
 aiCIO magazine recognized Citi with the Hedge Fund 
Innovation Award for Prime Finance.
 Derivatives Intelligence
 named Citi Credit Derivatives 
House of the Year.
 Citi was named Best Emerging Markets Bank, Best Debt 
House, and Best Flow House in Central and Eastern 
Europe, as well as Best Project Finance House in the 

United States by 
Euromoney
. Citi received Best Foreign Exchange Bank for Investors 
honors from
 FX Week
, as well as Best Bank for Spot FX, 
FX Prime Brokerage, FX in North America, U.S. Dollar/

Japan Yen, Emerging Latin American Currencies, FX 

Research and Strategy, and Algorithmic Trading.
 Citi was named Largest Foreign Exchange Bank in 
Latin America and won the Corporates and Real Money 
Investor Awards in the 
Euromoney
 FX poll.
Citi was selected by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to lead the landmark ˜nancing of One World Trade Center plus 
the retail components of the World Trade Center site and other site-wide infrastructure. This will be New York™s tallest skyscraper, 

topping out at 1,776 feet and 3 million square feet of of˜ce space. Citi has been working with the Port Authority on ˜nancing this 

project since our appointment as lead underwriter in 2008.
14and led the ˜nancing for the largest leveraged buyout of the 
year, Apollo™s $7.5 billion acquisition of El Paso™s exploration 
and production business, and was joint bookrunner on 
Hutchison Whampoa™s $1.5 billion dual-tranche senior offering, 

which achieved Hutchison™s lowest coupons ever in each of the 
maturities issued. 
Markets
Citi Markets provides world-class ˜nancial products 
and  services as diverse as the needs of the corporates, 
 institutions, governments and investors we serve. The breadth, 
depth and strength of our underwriting, sales and trading, 

distribution and research capabilities span a broad range of 
asset classes and currencies, sectors and industries. Products 
offered include equities, commodities, credit, futures, foreign 
exchange (FX), emerging markets, G10 rates, municipals, prime 
˜nance and securitized markets.
Our research and analysis group helps institutional clients 
 navigate a complex global marketplace with the highest-
quality 
 corporate, sector, economic and geographical 
 insights Š from equity and ˜xed income research to market 
and  product analysis. On trading ˚oors in more than 80 
 countries in Asia, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin 
America and North America, we work around the clock to 
enrich the  relationships, products, liquidity and technology 
that  de˜ne our 
 market-making presence. Our state-of-the-
art Citi Velocity
SM platform delivers electronic access to Citi™s 
global footprint and world-class innovation, giving clients 

 unprecedented access to our capital markets intelligence and 
services across equities, futures, FX, emerging markets, rates, 

 credit, 
 commodities, securitized markets, municipals, prime 
 
˜nance and research. Through our web, mobile and trading 
 applications, clients can ˜nd proprietary data and analytics, 
Citi research and commentary; fast, seamless and stable 
 execution for FX and rates trades; and a suite of 
 sophisticated, 
post-trade analysis tools Š everything clients need to make 
the most of the market.
In 2012, Citi was recognized as a Greenwich Share Leader in 
both Global Fixed Income and Global Foreign Exchange based 
on Greenwich Associates™ 2012 Global Foreign Exchange 
 Services and Global Fixed Income Investors Studies.
Citi Private Bank
Our Private Bank is a trusted advisor to some of the world™s 
most successful and in˚uential individuals and families. As 
one of the world™s global private banks, we believe that our 

 teamwork, commitment to service and an ability to open 
a world of opportunity for our clients™ wealth set us apart. 
The Private Bank is represented by more than 1,000 Private 
 Bankers and product specialists across a network of 60 
 of˜ces 
in over 20 countries. 
Our comprehensive services are tailored to individuals and 
families and include entrepreneurs and business owners, 
 single- and multi-family of˜ces, senior corporate executives, 
next-generation owners/inherited wealth, law ˜rms and 

 attorneys. From banking and cash management to lending, 
investment strategies, trust and specialized services, we are 
here to support our clients with a comprehensive range of 

services. Our goal is to deliver expertise and a premier level 

of service while helping grow, manage and preserve wealth. 
As we partner with our clients, we can deliver the complete 
 ˜nancial management strategies that today™s wealth requires.
The Private Bank has been recognized in the industry for our 
leadership, service and best-in-class capabilities worldwide, 
demonstrating our continued commitment to helping clients 

build and preserve their wealth legacy.
Citi Transaction Services
Citi Transaction Services (CTS) provides cash management, 
trade, securities and fund services to multinational 
 corporations, ˜nancial institutions, governments and public 
sector 
 organizations in more than 140 countries. Ninety-
four percent of Fortune 100 companies and 81% of Fortune 

Global 500 companies count on Citi to support their ˜nancial 

operations with global solutions.
Every day, Citi Transaction Services intermediates more than 
 $3 trillion in ˜nancial, commercial and capital ˚ows. Access to 

technology platforms, regulatory knowledge and data-
 driven 
expertise enables clients to manage ˜nancial operations 

ef˜ciently with visibility and control, maximize the value of 

capital, protect the integrity of supply chains and 
 manage risk. Uniquely placed to support clients™ expansion in the 

developing markets, CTS meets their evolving needs through 

sustained investment in technology and digital innovation. 
CTS truly is the backbone of Citi™s global franchise.
Citi™s clients depend on the scale and consistency of CTS™ 
global platforms, connectivity to market infrastructures 

and proven operating expertise in developed and growth 
 markets. We provide working capital solutions and 
 transaction 
 
processing to supply chain ˜nancing, correspondent 
 banking, securities services, issuer services, and investment 
 administration and servicing across traditional and alternative 
investment strategies, asset classes and geographies.
Institutional Clients Group
15 Highlights
 
Citi was awarded the Structured Products House of 
 the Year in the Americas and Asia by 
Structured 

Products
 magazine.
 The Banker
 named Citi Most Innovative Bank in 
 Project and Infrastructure Finance.
 More than 400,000 corporate users across the 
 globe count on CitiDirect BE
SM Mobile to authorize 
 and release payments, as well as run real-time 
 account inquiries while on the go, anytime, anywhere. 
The winner of the 2012 industry awards for innovation 
 
from 
The Banker
 and Barlow Research, CitiDirect 

BESM Mobile recently surpassed $20 billion in total 
transaction value processed across 87 countries 
 
and in 12 languages.
 Citi™s Latin America franchise was named Best Overall 
Bank for Cash Management by 
Global Finance
 and  Best Trade Finance Provider by 
Euromoney
. HFMWeek
 named Citi Best Prime Broker for 
 Consulting Services.
 Citi™s Client Money Segregation platform was named 
Best OTC Trading Initiative by American Financial 
Technology Awards.
 Citi was named OTC Client Clearing Service of the
 Year by 
Risk and Client Clearing Provider of the 
 Year by 
AsiaRisk.Trading desks in more than 80 countries and 400 connections 
to cash and securities clearing systems offer Institutional 

clients an unmatched footprint in the global ˜nancial markets.
Each Citi Private Bank client is assigned a Private Banker, 

who is dedicated to creating, managing and enhancing the 

client™s wealth and is supported by a team of specialists.
16At Citi, we aim to conduct business in a manner that creates 
value for our clients, shareholders, people and communities. 
We reinforce our commitment to Responsible Finance
SM and ˜nancial inclusion with innovative business endeavors, 

with robust philanthropic investments and by recruiting 
and supporting a diverse workforce Š because being a good 

corporate citizen starts with operating responsibly.
Financial InclusionAs a ˜nancial institution, Citi embraces the challenge to help 

reach the 2.5 billion people in the world with no access to 
˜nancial services. Through Citi Micro˜nance, Citi Community 
Development and the Citi Foundation, we work across Citi 

business lines and with community groups, governments, 
institutions and networks to develop innovative, measurable 
and replicable initiatives that broaden access for traditionally 

underserved communities. By investing capital and expertise, 
we work with partners to:
 Make it possible for microentrepreneurs and small business 
owners to start and sustain their businesses and to create 
livelihoods for their families and neighbors;
 Enable young people to receive advanced education and 
prepare for productive adulthood;
 Help consumers build their own ˜nancial capability by 
pairing ˜nancial education with access to appropriate 

products and services so they can save, wisely manage their 
money and weather setbacks; and
 Finance affordable housing and community infrastructure 
projects that create a solid foundation for ˜nancial mobility.
Environmental Sustainability
Citi™s commitment to environmental sustainability in our own 
operations and with our clients is based on three pillars:
 Managing the environmental footprint of our own 
 global operations;
 Evaluating environmental and social risk associated with 
projects we ˜nance; and
 Developing business opportunities with our clients to 
address critical environmental issues.
For example, in 2012, Citi provided $100 million in ˜nancing 
to expand SunPower™s residential solar lease program for 
U.S. consumers, pioneered transactions in energy ef˜ciency 

˜nance and became the ˜rst bank in the world to have 200 
projects receive Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) certi˜cation by the U.S. Green Building Council. 

We support solutions that address climate change, water 
scarcity, declining biodiversity, human rights and other 
important challenges.
A Diverse Workforce
Our efforts would not be possible without the strength of 
a diverse and skilled global workforce. Citi™s support helps 

our people achieve professional growth, make meaningful 
contributions and develop pride in their work. The distinct 
perspectives of our team members bring added value to 

our clients and customers, and Citi™s strong tradition of 
volunteerism ensures that our collective passion and talents 
are put to use outside the workplace as well.
For a more in-depth look at our work in these areas, please 
 be sure to access Citi™s 2012 
Global Citizenship Report
 at http://citizenship.citigroup.com.
Corporate Citizenship
 Highlights
Expanding Financial Access
 Citi Micro˜nance, Citi Indonesia and OPIC announced an 
 $18.5 million term loan to promote ˜nancial inclusion among 
microentrepreneurs and small businesses in Indonesia.
 Citi Community Development was a key supporter of 
Citizenship Maryland, an initiative that offers microloans to 

legal permanent residents eligible for citizenship. The loans 
help participants pay the $680 naturalization fee while 
building their credit histories and ˜nancial capability. The City 

of New York replicated the program.
 The Citi Foundation and the Inter-American Development 
Bank selected innovation partners to participate in a three-
year, $6 million fund to test and evaluate new business 
models to recipients of Conditional Cash Transfers across 

Latin America and the Caribbean. 
Citibank Customer Service Sales Rep Shawn McHellon, a Staff 
Sergeant in the U.S. Army Reserves, is one of more than 2,000 

Citi employees who have served in the U.S. Armed Forces.
17 Championing the Environment
 
Citi advised Hanwha Chemical, part of the Hanwha 
Group (Korea), on the purchase of signi˜cant assets 
of Q CELLS (Germany), creating at the time the third-
largest manufacturer of solar cells globally, with a total 

production capacity of 2.3 gigawatts.
 Citi Micro˜nance worked with Citi™s Environmental 
Products Trading and Origination team to purchase 
1.17 million metric tonnes of carbon credits from social 

enterprise MicroEnergy Credits. The carbon credits will 

be generated through the installation of more ef˜cient 

household insulation and heating ˜xtures in Mongolia. 
Portions of the proceeds from Citi™s purchase will allow 
local lender XacBank to increase access to affordable 

clean energy loans.
 Citi established a company-wide Environmental and Social 
Risk Management (ESRM) Policy, expanding on Citi™s long-

standing ICG ESRM Policy and procedures. 
A Dynamic Workforce
 In 2012, we launched Citi Salutes
SM, a ˜rm-wide initiative 
centered on developing career opportunities for veterans 
and their families, community partnerships with veterans™ 
service organizations, and the development of ˜nancial 
products and services tailored to the greater military 

community. Citi currently employs more than 2,000 

colleagues with military experience.
  
Seventy-four employee af˜nity networks with 12,000 
members enrich worklife in 27 locations and offer 

opportunities for networking, mentoring, coaching and 

community involvement.
On Global Community Day, Citi Zambia volunteers teamed 
up to paint and renovate the Open Baptist Community 

School for the Deaf.
More than 110,000 employees in 93 countries, such as these 

U.S. colleagues in St. Louis, Missouri, volunteered in their 

cities and towns during Citi Global Community Day in 2012.
18CELEBRATING
 200 Y
EARS
2012 marked Citi™s 200th anniversary, an opportunity to re˚ect on two centuries of enabling progress. 
We celebrated our rich heritage of innovation in a global advertising campaign, thanked our clients 
at events held around the world and joined together for a Global Community Day to give back to the 
communities in which we live and work.
This page, clockwise: 
In˜nity Plaza, Shanghai, 

China; Frankfurt Airport, Germany; newspaper 
advertisement.
Opposite, left to right:
 Citigroup.com/200; 
 200 Years Citi Anniversary newspaper advertisement.
19ENABLING
 PROGRESS
From popularizing the ATM to helping pioneer digital 
banking, throughout our bicentenary we shared 
Citi™s history of supporting the people, ideas and 
solutions that make things better for all of us. As we 

move into our third century, Citi is proud to continue 
helping clients and communities progress from 
ambition to achievement.
20Citi™s Mission: Enabling Progress
 Citi works tirelessly to serve individuals, communities, institutions 
and nations. With 200 years of experience meeting the world™s 
toughest challenges and seizing its greatest opportunities, we 
strive to create the best outcomes for our clients and customers 

with ˜nancial solutions that are simple, creative and responsible. 

An institution connecting over 1,000 cities, 160 countries and 
millions of people,
 we are your global bank; we are Citi.
 The four key principles Š the values that guide us
 as we perform our mission Š are:
Common Purpose
One team, with one goal: serving our clients and stakeholders
Responsible Finance
Conduct that is transparent, prudent and dependable
Ingenuity
Enhancing our clients™ lives through innovation that harnesses 
 the breadth and depth of our information, global network and 
world-class products
Leadership
Talented people with the best training who thrive in a diverse 
meritocracy that demands excellence, initiative and courage
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWASHINGTON, D.C. 20549FORM 10-KANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012Commission file number 1-9924Citigroup Inc.(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)Delaware (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)52-1568099 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)399 Park Avenue, New York, NY (Address of principal executive offices)10022 (Zip code)Registrant™s telephone number, including area code: (212) 559-1000Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: See Exhibit 99.01Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: noneIndicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
  Yes X NoIndicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes X NoIndicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. X Yes  NoIndicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months 
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). X Yes  NoIndicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant™s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference 

in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. XIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting 
company. See the definitions of ﬁlarge accelerated filer,ﬂ ﬁaccelerated filer,ﬂ and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
X Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes X NoThe aggregate market value of Citigroup Inc. common stock held by non-affiliates of Citigroup Inc. on June 30, 2012 was approximately $80.4 billion.Number of shares of Citigroup, Inc. common stock outstanding on January 31, 2013: 3,038,758,550Documents Incorporated by Reference: Portions of the registrant™s proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to be held on April 24, 2013, are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III.21.Business
 ........................4Œ36, 40,
 126Œ132, 
135Œ136, 163, 
290Œ2931A.Risk Factors
 .....................60-711B.Unresolved Staff Comments
 .........Not Applicable2.Properties
 .......................2933.Legal Proceedings
 ................280Œ2874.Mine Safety Disclosures
 ............Not Applicable5.Market for Registrant™s Common 
Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, 
and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities .......................44, 169, 288,294Œ295, 2976.Selected Financial Data
 ............10Œ117.Management™s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations ..............6Œ59, 72Œ1257A.Quantitative and Qualitative 
Disclosures About Market Risk
 ......72Œ125, 164Œ165,187Œ218, 223Œ2738.Financial Statements and 
Supplementary Data
 ...............140Œ2899.Changes in and Disagreements with 
Accountants on Accounting and 
Financial Disclosure
 ...............Not Applicable9A.Controls and Procedures
 ...........133Œ1349B.Other Information
 .................Not Applicable10.Directors, Executive Officers and 
Corporate Governance
 .............296Œ297, 299*11.Executive Compensation
 ...........**12.Security Ownership of Certain 
Beneficial Owners and Management 
and Related Stockholder Matters ....***13.Certain Relationships and Related 
Transactions and Director 

Independence ....................****14.Principal Accountant Fees and 
Services ........................*****15.Exhibits and Financial Statement 
Schedules .......................˜˙




˙


˜˜˙˙
‚ˆ


˜˜˜˙˙
˙


˜˜˜˜˙‚



˜˜˜˜˜˙•ˆ˙

346
6
101214
15North America Regional Consumer Banking16EMEA Regional Consumer Banking18Latin America Regional Consumer Banking20Asia Regional Consumer Banking22
24Securities and Banking25Transaction Services
28
3031Brokerage and Asset Management32Local Consumer Lending33Special Asset Pool363741Capital Resources41Funding and Liquidity505859607274Loans Outstanding75Details of Credit Loss Experience76Non-Accrual Loans and Assets and Renegotiated Loans78North America Consumer Mortgage Lending83North America Cards97Consumer Loan Details98Corporate Loan Details100102
112
113Country Risk113Cross-Border Risk120123124126133
134135
137
138
139140146289
290Disclosure Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act291
Customers292Competition292Properties293293
294295296Citigroup Executive Officers2962994Citigroup™s history dates back to the founding of Citibank in 1812. Citigroup™s original corporate predecessor was incorporated in 1988 under 
the laws of the State of Delaware. Following a series of transactions over a 
number of years, Citigroup Inc. was formed in 1998 upon the merger of 
Citicorp and Travelers Group Inc.Citigroup is a global diversified financial services holding company whose businesses provide consumers, corporations, governments and institutions 
with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer 
banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, 
transaction services and wealth management. Citi has approximately 
200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions.Citigroup currently operates, for management reporting purposes, via two primary business segments: Citicorp, consisting of Citi™s Global Consumer Banking businesses and Institutional Clients Group; and Citi Holdings, 
consisting of 
Brokerage and Asset Management, Local Consumer Lending 
and Special Asset Pool. For a further description of the business segments 
and the products and services they provide, see ﬁCitigroup Segmentsﬂ below, 

ﬁManagement™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 

of Operationsﬂ and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Throughout this report, ﬁCitigroup,ﬂ ﬁCitiﬂ and ﬁthe Companyﬂ refer to Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.Additional information about Citigroup is available on Citi™s website 
at www.citigroup.com. Citigroup™s recent annual reports on Form 10-K, 

quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, proxy statements, as well as other filings 
with the SEC, are available free of charge through Citi™s website by clicking 

on the ﬁInvestorsﬂ page and selecting ﬁAll SEC Filings.ﬂ The SEC™s website 

also contains current reports, information statements, and other information 
regarding Citi at www.sec.gov.
Within this Form 10-K, please refer to the tables of contents on pages 3 
and 139 for page references to Management™s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements, respectively.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior periods™ financial statements to conform to the current period™s presentation. For information 

on certain recent such reclassifications, including the transfer of the 
substantial majority of Citi™s retail partner cards businesses (which are now 

referred to as Citi retail services) from Citi HoldingsŠLocal Consumer Lending to CiticorpŠNorth America Regional Consumer Banking, 
which was effective January 1, 2012, see Citi™s Form 8-K furnished to the SEC 

on March 26, 2012.At December 31, 2012, Citi had approximately 259,000 full-time employees compared to approximately 266,000 full-time employees at 
December 31, 2011.Please see ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ below for a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that could impact 
Citigroup™s businesses, financial condition and results of 

operations.5As described above, Citigroup is managed pursuant to the following segments:Global 
ConsumerBanking (GCB)InstitutionalClientsGroup (ICG)Corporate/OtherRegional Consumer Banking (RCB) in:North AmericaEMEA
Latin America
Asia  Retail banking


 Citi-branded cards 

Citi retail services
Securities andBanking







 Transaction Services











Citi HoldingsBrokerage and Asset Management








Local ConsumerLending














Special Asset Pool

CiticorpThe following are the four regions in which Citigroup operates. The regional results are fully reflected in the segment results above. 
North AmericaEurope, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)Latin AmericaAsia(1)  North America includes the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, 
Latin America
 includes Mexico, and 
Asia includes Japan.
62012ŠOngoing Transformation of CitigroupDuring 2012, Citigroup continued to build on the significant transformation 
of the Company that has occurred over the last several years. Despite a 
challenging operating environment (as discussed below), Citi™s 2012 
results showed ongoing momentum in most of its core businesses, as Citi 
continued to simplify its business model and focus resources on its core 
Citicorp franchise while continuing to wind down Citi Holdings as quickly as 

practicable in an economically rational manner. Citi made steady progress 
toward the successful execution of its strategy, which is to:enhance its position as a leading global bank for both institutions and individuals, by building on its unique global network, deep emerging 
markets expertise, client relationships and product expertise;position Citi to seize the opportunities provided by current trends 
(globalization, digitization and urbanization) for the benefit of clients;further its commitment to responsible finance;strengthen Citi™s performanceŠincluding gaining market share with 
clients, making Citi more efficient and productive, and building upon its 
history of innovation; andwind down Citi Holdings as soon as practicable, in an economically 
rational manner.With these goals in mind, on December 5, 2012, Citi announced a number 
of repositioning efforts to optimize its footprint, re-size and re-align certain businesses and improve efficiencies, while at the same time maintaining 
its unique competitive advantages. As a result of these repositioning efforts, 
in the fourth quarter of 2012, Citi recorded pretax repositioning charges of 
approximately $1 billion, and expects to incur an additional $100 million of charges in the first half of 2013.Continued Challenges in 2013
Citi continued to face a challenging operating environment during 2012, 
many aspects of which it expects will continue into 2013. While showing 
some signs of improvement, the overall economic environmentŠboth in 
the U.S. and globallyŠremains largely uncertain, and spread compression1 continues to negatively impact the results of operations of several of Citi™s 
businesses, particularly in the U.S. and Asia. Citi also continues to face a 
significant number of regulatory changes and uncertainties, including the 
timing and implementation of the final U.S. regulatory capital standards. 
Further, Citi™s legal and related costs remain elevated and likely volatile 
as it continues to work through ﬁlegacyﬂ issues, such as mortgage-related 
expenses, and operates in a heightened litigious and regulatory environment. 
Finally, while Citi reduced the size of Citi Holdings by approximately 31% 
during 2012, the remaining assets within Citi Holdings will continue to 
have a negative impact on Citi™s overall results of operations in 2013, 
although this negative impact should continue to abate as the wind-down 
continues. For a more detailed discussion of these and other risks that could 
impact Citi™s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, 
see ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ below. As a result of these continuing challenges, 
Citi remains highly focused on the areas within its control, including 
operational efficiency and optimizing its core businesses in order to drive 
improved returns.˙




7CitigroupFor 2012, Citigroup reported net income of $7.5 billion and diluted earnings per share of $2.44, compared to $11.1 billion and $3.63 per share, respectively, for 2011. 2012 results included several significant items:a negative impact from the credit valuation adjustment on derivatives (counterparty and own-credit), net of hedges (CVA) and debt valuation 
adjustment on Citi™s fair value option debt (DVA), of pretax $(2.3) billion ($(1.4) billion after-tax) as Citi™s credit spreads tightened during the 
year, compared to a pretax impact of $1.8 billion ($1.1 billion after-tax) in 2011;a net loss of $4.6 billion ($2.9 billion after-tax) related to the sale of minority investments, driven by the loss from Citi™s sale of a 14% interest, 
and other-than-temporary impairment on its remaining 35% interest, in 
the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney (MSSB) joint venture, versus a gain of 
$199 million ($128 million after-tax) in the prior year;2as mentioned above, $1.0 billion of repositioning charges in the fourth quarter of 2012 ($653 million after-tax) compared to $428 million ($275 million after-tax) in the fourth quarter of 2011; anda $582 million tax benefit in the third quarter of 2012 related to the resolution of certain tax audit items.Excluding CVA/DVA, the impact of minority investments, the repositioning 
charges in the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2011 and the tax benefit, net income was $11.9 billion, or $3.86 per diluted share, in 2012, an increase of 18% compared to $10.1 billion, or $3.30 per diluted share, reported in 2011, as higher revenues, lower core operating expenses and lower net credit losses 
were partially offset by higher legal and related costs and a lower net loan 
loss reserve release.3‹˙

˙“Ł‹„™˙

Brokerage and 

Asset Management


Ł›‹›˙˙‚˙
Corporate/Other
˙

˙˙
˙˙

…
˙Corporate/Other
„
˙˙
Corporate/Other
„‰˙







Citi™s revenues, net of interest expense, were $70.2
 billion in 2012, down 10% versus the prior year. Excluding CV
A/DVA and the impact of minority 
investments, revenues were $77.1 billion, up 1% from 2011, as revenues in Citicorp rose 5%, but were offset by a 40% decline in Citi Holdings revenues 
compared to the prior year. Net interest revenues of $47.6 billion were 2% lower than the prior year, largely driven by the decline in loan balances in Local Consumer Lending in Citi Holdings as well as spread compression 
in North America and Asia Regional Consumer Banking (RCB) in 
Citicorp. Non-interest revenues were $22.6 billion, down 25% from the prior year, driven by CVA/DVA and the loss on MSSB in the third quarter of 2012. 
Excluding CVA/DVA and the impact of minority investments, non-interest 

revenues were $29.5 billion, up 6% from the prior year, principally driven by higher revenues in Securities and Banking and higher mortgage revenues 
in North America RCB, partially offset by lower revenues in the Special Asset Pool within Citi Holdings.Operating Expenses
Citigroup expenses decreased 1% versus the prior year to $50.5 billion. In 2012, in addition to the previously mentioned repositioning charges, 
Citi incurred elevated legal and related costs of $2.8 billion compared to $2.2 billion in the prior year. Excluding legal and related costs, repositioning charges for the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2011, and the impact of foreign 
exchange translation into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes (as used 
throughout this report, FX translation), which lowered reported expenses by 
approximately $0.9 billion in 2012 as compared to the prior year, operating expenses declined 1% to $46.6 billion versus $47.3 billion in the prior year.Citicorp™s expenses were $45.3 billion, up 2% from the prior year, as efficiency savings were more than offset by higher legal and related costs and 
repositioning charges. Citi Holdings expenses were down 19% year-over-year 

to $5.3 billion, principally due to the continued decline in assets.8Credit CostsCiti™s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims 
of $11.7 billion declined 8% from the prior year. Net credit losses of $14.6 billion were down 27% from 2011, largely reflecting improvements in North America cards and Local Consumer Lending and the Special Asset Pool within Citi Holdings. Consumer net credit losses declined 22% to 
$14.4 billion reflecting improvements in North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services in Citicorp and Local Consumer Lending within 
Citi Holdings. Corporate net credit losses decreased 86% year-over-year to 
$223 million, driven primarily by continued credit improvement in both the Special Asset Pool in Citi Holdings and Securities and Banking in Citicorp.The net release of allowance for loan losses and unfunded lending commitments was $3.7 billion in 2012, 55% lower than 2011. Of the $3.7 billion net reserve release, $2.1 billion was attributable to Citicorp compared to a $4.9 billion release in the prior year. The decline in the Citicorp reserve release year-over-year mostly reflected a lower reserve release 

in North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services and Securities and Banking. The $1.6 billion net reserve release in Citi Holdings was down from $3.3 billion in the prior year, due primarily to lower releases within the Special Asset Pool, reflecting the decline in assets. Of the $3.7 billion net reserve release, $3.6 billion related to Consumer, with the remainder in Corporate.Capital and Loan Loss Reserve Positions
Citigroup™s Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Common ratios were 14.1% and 
12.7% as of December 31, 2012, respectively, compared to 13.6% and 11.8% 
in the prior year. Citi™s estimated Tier 1 Common ratio under Basel III 
was 8.7% at December 31, 2012, up slightly from an estimated 8.6% at 
September 30, 2012.4Citigroup™s total allowance for loan losses was $25.5
 billion at year end, or 3.9% of total loans, compared to $30.1 billion, or 4.7%, at the end of the prior year. The decline in the total allowance for loan losses reflected the continued wind-down of Citi Holdings and overall continued improvement in the credit 
quality of Citi™s loan portfolios.
The Consumer allowance for loan losses was $22.7 billion, or 5.6% of total Consumer loans, at year end, compared to $27.2 billion, or 6.5% of total loans, at December 31, 2011. Total non-accrual assets increased 3% to $12.0 billion as compared to December 31, 2011. Corporate non-accrual loans declined 28% to $2.3 billion, reflecting continued credit improvement. Consumer non-accrual loans increased $1.4 billion, or 17%, to $9.2 billion versus the prior year. The increase in Consumer non-accrual loans predominantly reflected the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) 
guidance issued in the third quarter of 2012 regarding the treatment of 
mortgage loans where the borrower has gone through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, 

which added $1.5 billion to Consumer non-accrual loans (of which approximately $1.3 billion were current).›˙‚

‚‚
„
Citicorp5Citicorp net income decreased 8% from the prior year to $14.1 billion. The decrease largely reflected the impact of CVA/DVA and higher legal and 
related costs and repositioning charges, partially offset by lower provisions 
for income taxes. CVA/DVA, recorded in Securities and Banking, was $(2.5) billion in 2012, compared to $1.7 billion in the prior year. Within Citicorp, repositioning charges were $951 million ($604 million after-tax) in the fourth quarter 2012, versus $368 million ($237 million after-tax) in the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA, the impact of minority investments, 
the repositioning charges in the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2011, and the 
tax benefit in the third quarter of 2012, Citicorp net income increased 9% 
from the prior year to $15.6 billion, primarily driven by growth in revenues and lower net credit losses partially offset by lower loan loss reserve releases 
and higher taxes.Citicorp revenues, net of interest expense, were $71 billion in 2012, down 1% versus the prior year. Excluding CVA/DVA and the impact of minority 
investments, Citicorp revenues were $73.4 billion in 2012, 5% higher than 2011. Global Consumer Banking (GCB) revenues of $40.2 billion increased 3% versus the prior year. North America RCB revenues grew 5% to $21.1 billion. International RCB revenues (consisting of Asia RCB, Latin America RCB and EMEA RCB) increased 1% year-over-year to 

$19.1 billion. Excluding the impact of FX translation,6 international RCB revenues increased 5% year-over-year. 
Securities and Banking revenues 
were $19.7 billion in 2012, down 8% year-over-year
. Securities and Banking revenues, excluding CVA/DVA, were $22.2
 billion, or 13%, higher than the prior year. Transaction Services 
revenues were $10.9 billion, up 3% from the prior year, but up 5% excluding the impact of FX translation. Corporate/Other revenues, excluding the impact of minority investments, declined 80% 
from the prior year mainly reflecting the absence of hedging gains.In North America RCB, the revenue growth year-over-year was driven by 
higher mortgage revenues, partially offset by lower revenues in Citi-branded 
cards and Citi retail services, mostly driven by lower average card loans. 
North America RCB average deposits of $154 billion grew 6% year-over-year 
and average retail loans of $41 billion grew 19%. Average card loans of $109 billion declined 3%, driven by increased payment rates resulting from consumer deleveraging, and card purchase sales of $232 billion were roughly flat. Citi retail services revenues were also negatively impacted by improving 
credit trends, which increased contractual partner payments.Ÿ˙
Global Consumer Banking, Securities and 
BankingTransaction Services
Corporate/Other
„


†˙

EMEA RCB, Latin America 
RCB, Asia RCB
Transaction Services


„
9The international RCB revenue growth year-over-year, excluding the 
impact of FX translation, was driven by 9% revenue growth in Latin America RCB and 2% revenue growth in EMEA RCB. Asia RCB revenues were flat year-over-year, primarily reflecting spread compression in some countries 

in the region and the impact of regulatory actions in certain countries, 
particularly Korea. International RCB average deposits grew 2% versus the 
prior year, average retail loans increased 11%, investment sales grew 12%, 

average card loans grew 6%, and international card purchase sales grew 10%, 
all excluding the impact of FX translation.In Securities and Banking, fixed income markets revenues of $14.0 billion, excluding CVA/DVA,
7 increased 28% from the prior year, 
reflecting higher revenues in rates and currencies and credit-related and 
securitized products. Equity markets revenues of $2.4 billion in 2012, excluding CVA/DVA, increased 1% driven by improved derivatives performance 
as well as the absence in the current year of proprietary trading losses, 
partially offset by lower cash equity volumes.Investment banking revenues rose 10% from the prior year to $3.6 billion, principally driven by higher revenues in debt underwriting and advisory 
activities, partially offset by lower equity underwriting revenues. Lending 
revenues of $997 million were down 45% from the prior year, reflecting $698 million in losses on hedges related to accrual loans as credit spreads tightened during 2012 (compared to a $519 million gain in the prior year as spreads widened). Excluding the mark-to-market impact of loan 
hedges related to accrual loans, lending revenues rose 31% year-over-year to 
$1.7 billion reflecting growth in the Corporate loan portfolio and improved spreads in most regions. Private Bank revenues of $2.3 billion increased 8% from the prior year, excluding CVA/DVA, driven primarily by growth in 
North America lending and deposits.In Transaction Services, 
the increase in revenues year-over-year, 
excluding the impact of FX translation, was driven by growth in Treasury 
and Trade Solutions, 
which was partially offset by a decline in Securities and Fund Services. Excluding the impact of FX translation, Treasury 
and Trade Solutions
 revenues were up 8%, driven by growth in trade as 
end-of-period trade loans grew 23%, partially offset by ongoing spread 
compression given the low interest rate environment. Securities and Fund Services revenues were down 2%, excluding the impact of FX translation, 
mostly reflecting lower market volumes as well as spread compression 
on deposits.Citicorp end-of-period loans increased 7% year-over-year to $540
 billion, with 3% growth in Consumer loans, primarily in Latin America, and 11% growth in Corporate loans.Citi Holdings8Citi Holdings net loss was $6.6 billion compared to a net loss of $4.2 billion in 2011. The increase in the net loss was driven by the $4.7 billion pretax ($2.9 billion after-tax) loss on MSSB described above. In addition, Citi Holdings results included $77 million in repositioning charges in the fourth quarter of 2012, compared to $60 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. Excluding the loss on MSSB, CVA/DVA9 and the repositioning charges in the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2011, Citi Holdings net loss decreased 
to $3.7 billion compared to a net loss of $4.2 billion in the prior year, as revenue declines and lower loan loss reserve releases were more than offset by 
lower operating expenses and lower net credit losses. These improved results 
in 2012 reflected the continued decline in Citi Holdings assets.Citi Holdings revenues decreased to $(833) million from $6.3 billion in the prior year. Excluding CVA/DVA and the loss on MSSB, Citi Holdings 
revenues were $3.7 billion in 2012 compared to $6.2 billion in the prior year. Special Asset Pool revenues, excluding CVA/DVA, were $(657)
 million in 2012, compared to $473 million in the prior year, largely due to lower non-interest revenue resulting from lower gains on asset sales. Local Consumer Lending 
revenues of $4.4 billion declined 20% from the prior year primarily due to the 24% decline in average assets. Brokerage and Asset Management revenues, excluding the loss on MSSB, were $(15) million, compared to $282 million in the prior year, mostly reflecting higher funding costs. Net interest revenues declined 30% year-over-year to $2.6
 billion, largely driven by continued declining loan balances in Local Consumer Lending. Non-interest revenues, excluding the loss on MSSB and CVA/DVA, were $1.1
 billion versus $2.5 billion in the prior year, principally reflecting lower gains on asset sales within the Special Asset Pool.As noted above, Citi Holdings assets declined 31% year-over-year to 
$156 billion as of the end of 2012. Also at the end of 2012, Citi Holdings assets comprised approximately 8% of total Citigroup GAAP assets and 15% 
of risk-weighted assets (as defined under current regulatory guidelines). 
Local Consumer Lending continued to represent the largest segment within Citi Holdings, with $126 billion of assets as of the end of 2012, of which approximately 73% consisted of mortgages in North America real estate lending.ł˙Local Consumer Lending, Special Asset Pool
Brokerage and Asset 
Management
„

™˙

Special Asset Pool

˙ŁŒ›˙„Œ˙
—˙⁄
Securities and Banking

Institutional Clients Group10Citigroup Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries
In millions of dollars, except per-share amounts and ratios
2012‹−−™‹−−ł
$47,603
ŁŁŁŁ
22,570
Revenues, net of interest expense
$70,173
ŁŁŁŁ

50,518

11,719
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes$7,936
ŁŁŁŁ
27
‘Income (loss) from continuing operations$7,909
ŁŁŁŁ
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes 
(1)(149)“†ł‘“››Ÿ‘
Net income (loss) before attribution of noncontrolling interests$7,760
ŁŁŁŁ

219™Ÿ“‰›‰‘
Citigroup™s net income (loss)
$7,541
ŁŁŁŁ
$26
Ł‹†Ł™ŁŁ


Š”””
Š””‰Œ

Š”””

˙
ˆ
166™−‹
Income (loss) allocated to unrestricted common shareholders for Basic EPS$7,349
ŁŁŁŁ

Š””“Ÿ›−‘“łŒŒ‘





˙ˆ
11‹””
Income (loss) allocated to unrestricted common shareholders for diluted EPS (2)$7,360
ŁŁŁŁ
Earnings per share (3)Basic (3)
2.56‰„†™‰„††“†‰„ł™‘
2.51‰„Œ‰‰„†Ÿ“Œ„™™‘“Ÿ†„‹™‘
Diluted (2)(3)
$2.49
Ł‰„Ÿ™Ł‰„ŸŸŁŁ“†‰„ł™‘
2.44‰„†‰‰„Ÿ›“Œ„™™‘“Ÿ†„‹™‘
Dividends declared per common share
 (3)(4)0.04−„−‰−„−−

11Citigroup Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries
In millions of dollars, except per-share amounts, ratios and direct staff
2012‹−−™‹−−ł
At December 31:‚
$1,864,660
ŁŁŁŁ
‚
930,560
239,463
‚
10,110

186,487
‚
189,049

(in thousands)259‹††‹†−‹†Ÿ‰‹‰
Ratios

0.4%−„†Š−„ŸŠ“−„−ł‘Š

˙“Ÿ‘4.1†„‰†„ł“™„›‘“‹ł„ł‘

˙“Ÿ‘4.1†„‰†„ł“‹−„™‘

72†ŸŸŸ†−
‚
˙“†‘12.67%™„†−Š‹„‰−Š
‚
14.06
‚
17.26

˙“Œ‘7.48†„†−†„łŒ†„−ł

10.00%™„›ŒŠł„Ÿ‹Š‰„††Š
‚
10.14™„›™ł„Ÿ›ł„‹‹

˙“›‘1.6−„ł¢–¢–¢–˙“‰‘$61.57
Ł†−„Œ−ŁŁŸ‰„Ÿ−Ł
•ˆ
1.38x¢–
¢–˙




‚˝ˆ
˙¥˙

“‹‘˙

˙

˙
“‰‘˙
˛˝
“›‘˙
“Ÿ‘˙
…˙ˆ„˙
…˙ˆ„
“†‘˙
‚‚

“Œ‘˙
‚
˙

…„
©˙
˙
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
˙
Consolidation: Noncontrolling Interest in a Subsidiary

˙˙‚˙
Earnings Per Share: Participating Securities and the 
Two-Class Method
‘„˙
12The following tables show the income (loss) and revenues for Citigroup on a segment and business view:In millions of dollars2012
% Change 2012 vs. 2011

Income (loss) from continuing operationsCITICORP
Global Consumer BankingNorth America$4,815
ŁŁ™Œ›
18%¢–EMEA(18)™Ÿ™Œ
NM“‹‘ŠLatin America
1,510
(4)Asia1,797
(6)Total
$8,104
ŁŁ
6%Ÿ›ŠSecurities and BankingNorth America$1,011
ŁŁ
(3)%“Ÿł‘ŠEMEA1,354
(32)Latin America
1,308™Œ›
34Asia822ł™Ÿ
(8)“‹‹‘Total
$4,495
ŁŁ
(9)%“‹Ÿ‘ŠTransaction Services
North America$470
ŁŁ›™−
13%EMEA1,244
10“Œ‘Latin America
654†‰™††‰
2“›‘Asia1,127
(3)“Œ‘Total
$3,495
ŁŁ
4%“ł‘ŠInstitutional Clients Group$7,990
ŁŁ
(3)%Corporate/Other$(1,625)
Ł“Œ‹ł‘Ł‹›‹
NM¢–Total Citicorp
$14,469
ŁŁ
(5)%CITI HOLDINGSBrokerage and Asset Management$(3,190)
Ł“‹ł†‘Ł“‹‹†‘
NM“‹Œ‘Š˙Local Consumer Lending(3,193)
28%Special Asset Pool
(177)Ÿ™†
NM“›™‘Total Citi Holdings
$(6,560)
ŁŁ
(60)%ŒŠIncome from continuing operations$7,909
ŁŁ
(29)%Discontinued operations$(149)
ŁŁ“†ł‘
NM¢–Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests219
48%“›Œ‘ŠCitigroup™s net income
$7,541
ŁŁ
(32)%›Š13In millions of dollars2012
% Change 2012 vs. 2011

CITICORPGlobal Consumer BankingNorth America$21,081
ŁŁ
5%“Œ‘ŠEMEA1,516
(3)”Latin America
9,702
2™Asia7,915
(1)łTotal
$40,214
ŁŁ
3%”ŠSecurities and BankingNorth America$6,104
ŁŁ
(19)%“‹−‘ŠEMEA6,417
(11)ŸLatin America
3,019
27“Œ‘Asia4,203
(2)Total
$19,743
ŁŁ
(8)%“Œ‘ŠTransaction Services
North America$2,564
ŁŁ
5%“‹‘ŠEMEA3,576
3›Latin America
1,797
5Asia2,920
(1)łTotal
$10,857
ŁŁ
3%ŸŠInstitutional Clients Group$30,600
ŁŁ
(4)%“›‘ŠCorporate/Other$192
ŁłłŸŁ
(78)%“Ÿ−‘ŠTotal Citicorp
$71,006
ŁŁ
(1)%“‰‘ŠCITI HOLDINGSBrokerage and Asset Management$(4,699)
Ł‹ł‹Ł†−™
NM“Ÿ›‘ŠLocal Consumer Lending4,366
(20)%“‰ł‘Special Asset Pool
(500)Ÿ›Œ
NMTotal Citi Holdings
$(833)
ŁŁ
NM“›™‘ŠTotal Citigroup net revenues
$70,173
ŁŁ
(10)%14Citicorp is Citigroup™s global bank for consumers and businesses and represents Citi™s core franchises. Citicorp is focused on providing best-in-class products and services to customers and leveraging Citigroup™s unparalleled global network, including many of the world™s emerging economies. Citicorp is physically present 
in approximately 100 countries, many for over 100 years, and offers services in over 160 countries and jurisdictions. Citi believes this global network provides 
a strong foundation for servicing the broad financial services needs of its large multinational clients and for meeting the needs of retail, private banking, 
commercial, public sector and institutional clients around the world. At December 31, 2012, Citicorp had $1.7 trillion of assets and $863 billion of deposits, representing 92% of Citi™s total assets and 93% of its deposits.Citicorp consists of the following operating businesses: Global Consumer Banking (which consists of Regional Consumer Banking in North America, EMEA, Latin America and Asia) and Institutional Clients Group (which includes Securities and Banking and Transaction Services
). Citicorp also includes 
Corporate/Other.In millions of dollars except as otherwise noted2012
% Change 2012 vs. 2011

$45,026
ŁŁ
1%“‰‘Š25,980
(5)“‰‘Total revenues, net of interest expense
$71,006
ŁŁ
(1)%“‰‘ŠProvisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$8,734
ŁŁ
(24)%“‰‹‘Š
(2,177)
56“ŸŒ‘
$6,557
ŁŁ
1%“Ÿ‰‘Š
236
22Ÿ
40™‹“‰Ÿ‘
(57)¢–‚
$6,833
ŁŁ
1%Total operating expenses
$45,265
ŁŁ
2%Income from continuing operations before taxes$18,908
ŁŁ
(9)%‹Š
4,439
(21)Income from continuing operations$14,469
ŁŁ
(5)%
(149)“†ł‘
NM¢–216‹™Œ›
NMNet income$14,104
ŁŁ
(8)%”ŠBalance sheet data (in billions of dollars)Total end-of-period (EOP) assets$1,709
ŁŁ
4%‰Š—
1,717
2Œ
0.82%−„™ŒŠ
Efficiency ratio (Operating expenses/Total revenues)
64%†‹ŠŸ›Š
Total EOP loans
$540
ŁŸ−ŒŁ›Ÿ−
7Total EOP deposits
863ł−›Œ†™
7Ÿ15Global Consumer Banking (GCB) consists of Citigroup™s four geographical Regional Consumer Banking (RCB) businesses that provide traditional banking services to retail customers through retail banking, commercial banking, Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services. GCB is a globally diversified business with 4,008 branches in 39 countries around the world. For the year ended December 31, 2012, GCB had $387 billion of average assets and $322 billion of average 
deposits. Citi™s strategy is to focus on the top 150 cities globally that it believes have the highest growth potential in consumer banking. Consistent with this 
strategy, as announced in the fourth quarter of 2012 as part of its repositioning efforts, Citi intends to optimize its branch footprint and further concentrate its 
presence in major metropolitan areas. As of December 31, 2012, Citi had consumer banking operations in approximately 120, or 80%, of these cities.In millions of dollars except as otherwise noted2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
% Change 2012 vs. 2011
˝˜˚˛˚
$29,468

(1)%10,746
13Total revenues, net of interest expense
$40,214

3%
$21,819

2%$8,452

(22)%
(2,131)
52
Š(100)
237
23’
$6,558

(1)%
$11,837

6%š˛˙3,733
6Income from continuing operations$8,104

6%3Š˛˚˚Net income $8,101

6%Balance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)⁄
$387

3%š˙2.09%
›…
54%

$402

4⁄
322
3
2.95%
Revenue by business$18,059

10%22,155
(3)Total
$40,214

3%Income from continuing operations by business$2,986

18%5,118
(1)Total
$8,104

6%Foreign Currency (FX) Translation Impact

$40,214

3%
Š

$40,214

5%
$21,819

2%
Š

$21,819

4%˛˜˙
$6,558

(1)%
Š

$6,558

2%$8,101

6%
Š
$8,101

7%˝˝˝

˝˝16North America Regional Consumer Banking (NA RCB) provides traditional banking and Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses in the U.S. NA RCB™s approximate 1,000 retail bank branches as of December 31, 2012 are largely concentrated in the greater 
metropolitan areas of New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, Miami, Washington, D.C., Boston, Philadelphia, Dallas, Houston, San Antonio and 
Austin. As announced in the fourth quarter of 2012, as part of its repositioning efforts, Citi expects to optimize its branch network in North America and further concentrate its presence in major metropolitan areas. At December 31, 2012, NA RCB had approximately 12.4 million customer accounts, $42.7 billion of retail banking loans and $165.2 billion of deposits. In addition, NA RCB had approximately 102.1 million Citi-branded and Citi retail services credit card accounts, with $111.5 billion in outstanding card loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
% Change 2012 vs. 2011
˝˜˚˛˚
$16,591

(2)%4,490
38Total revenues, net of interest expense
$21,081

5%
$9,933

3%$5,756

(29)%
(2,389)
43
1
NM
70
13
$3,438

(14)%
$7,710

19%2,895
21Income from continuing operations$4,815

18%1
ŠNet income$4,814

18%Balance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)⁄
$172

4%˛˙
2.80%
›…
47%
⁄
$154

6
3.83%
Revenue by business$6,677

31%8,323
(5)
6,081
(4)Total
$21,081

5%Income from continuing operations by business$1,237
š’’
NM2,080
(3)%
1,498
1Total
$4,815

18%˝17Net income increased 18%, mainly driven by higher mortgage revenues and a $2.3 billion decrease in net credit losses, partially offset by a $1.8 billion 
reduction in loan loss reserve releases.Revenues increased 5%, driven by a 38% increase in non-interest revenues from higher gains on sale of mortgages, partly offset by a 2% decline in 
net interest revenues. The higher gains on sale of mortgages were driven 
by high volumes of mortgage refinancing activity, due largely to the U.S. 

government™s Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP), as well as 

higher margins resulting from the shift to retail as compared to third-party 
origination channels. Assuming the continued low interest rate environment, 
Citi believes the higher mortgage refinancing volumes could continue into 
the first half of 2013. Excluding mortgages, revenue from the retail banking 
business was essentially flat, as volume growth and improved mix in the 
deposit and lending portfolios was offset by significant spread compression. 
Citi expects spread compression to continue to negatively impact revenues 
during 2013.Cards revenues declined 4%. In Citi-branded cards, both average loans and net interest revenue declined year-over-year, reflecting continued 
increased payment rates resulting from consumer deleveraging and the 
impact of the look-back provisions of The Credit Card Accountability 
Responsibility and Disclosure Act (CARD Act).10 Citi expects the look-back provisions of the CARD Act will likely have a diminishing impact on the 
results of operations of its cards businesses during 2013. In Citi retail 
services, net interest revenues improved slightly but were offset by declining 
non-interest revenues, driven by improving credit and the resulting impact 
on contractual partner payments. Citi expects cards revenues could continue 
to be negatively impacted by higher payment rates for consumers, reflecting 
ongoing economic uncertainty and deleveraging as well as Citi™s shift to 

higher credit quality borrowers.As part of its U.S. Citi-branded cards business, Citibank, N.A. issues a co-branded credit card product with American Airlines, the Citi/AAdvantage 
card. AMR Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, including American 
Airlines, Inc., filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 
11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in November 2011. On February 14, 2013, 
AMR Corporation and US Airways Group, Inc. announced that the boards of 
directors of both companies had approved a merger agreement under which 
the companies would be combined. For additional information, see ﬁRisk 
FactorsŠBusiness and Operational Risksﬂ below.Expenses increased 3%, primarily due to increased mortgage origination costs resulting from the higher retail channel mortgage volumes and $100 
million of repositioning charges in the fourth quarter of 2012, partially offset 
by lower expenses in cards. Expenses continued to be impacted by elevated 
legal and related costs.Provisions decreased 14%, due to lower net credit losses in the cards portfolio partly offset by continued lower loan loss reserve releases ($2.4 
billion in 2012 compared to $4.2 billion in 2011). Assuming no downturn 
in the U.S. economic environment, Citi believes credit trends have largely 
stabilized in the cards portfolios.Net income increased $3.1 billion, driven by higher loan loss reserve releases 
and an improvement in net credit losses, partly offset by lower revenues and 
higher expenses.Revenues decreased 7% due to a decrease in net interest and non-interest revenues. Net interest revenue decreased 5%, driven primarily by lower 
cards net interest revenue, which was negatively impacted by the look-back 
provision of the CARD Act. In addition, net interest revenue for cards was 
negatively impacted by higher promotional balances and lower total average 
loans. Non-interest revenue decreased 16%, primarily due to lower gains from 

the sale of mortgage loans, as margins declined and Citi held more loans 
on-balance sheet, and declining revenues driven by improving credit and the 
resulting impact on contractual partner payments in Citi retail services. In 
addition, the decline in non-interest revenue reflected lower retail banking 
fee income.Expenses increased 15%, primarily driven by higher investment spending in the business during the second half of 2011, particularly 
in cards marketing and technology, and increases in litigation accruals 

related to the interchange fees litigation (see Note 28 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements).Provisions decreased 66%, primarily due to a loan loss reserve release of $4.2 billion in 2011, compared to a loan loss reserve release of $1.3 billion in 
2010, and lower net credit losses in the cards portfolios (cards net credit losses 

declined $5.0 billion, or 38%, from 2010).˛˚˝



˝
18EMEA Regional Consumer Banking (EMEA RCB) provides traditional banking and Citi-branded card services to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses, primarily in Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The countries in which EMEA RCB has the largest presence are Poland, Turkey, Russia and the United Arab Emirates. As announced in the fourth quarter of 2012, as part of its repositioning efforts, Citi expects to either sell or significantly 
scale back its consumer operations in Turkey, Romania and Pakistan, and expects to further optimize its branch network in Hungary. At December 31, 2012, 
EMEA RCB had 228 retail bank branches with 3.9 million customer accounts, $5.1 billion in retail banking loans and $13.2 billion in deposits. In addition, the 
business had 2.8 million Citi-branded card accounts with $2.9 billion in outstanding card loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
% Change 2012 vs. 2011
˝˜˚˛˚
$1,040

10%˛˙476
(22)Total revenues, net of interest expense
$1,516

(3)%
$1,434

7%˛˚˙$105
˛š˜
(39)%
(5)
96
(1)’
NM
$99

71%
$(17)
˛’˚
NM˛˜˙1
(98)’’Income from continuing operations$(18)

NM4
Š˛˚˚Net income $(22)

NMBalance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)⁄
$9
˛˚˛˚
(10)%
(0.24)%
›…
95%
⁄
$12.6

1
1.40%
Revenue by business$889

Š˛˙627
(6)Total
$1,516

(3)%Income (loss) from continuing operations by business$(81)

NM63
(52)Total
$(18)

NMForeign Currency (FX) Translation Impact

$1,516

(3)%
Š

$1,516

2%
$1,434

7%˛˚˙
Š

$1,434

12%š˙
$99

71%
Š

$99

77%$(22)

NM
Š
$(22)

NM˝
˝˝19The discussion of the results of operations for EMEA RCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentation of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of EMEA RCB™s results excluding 
the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a reconciliation of certain of these 
metrics to the reported results, see the table above.The net loss of $22 million compared to net income of $84 million in 2011 
was mainly due to higher operating expenses and lower loan loss reserve 
releases, partially offset by higher revenues.Revenues increased 2%, with growth across the major products, including strong growth in Russia. Year-over-year, cards purchase sales increased 

12%, investment sales increased 15% and retail loan volume increased 17%. 
Revenue growth year-over-year was partly offset by the absence of Akbank, 

Citi™s equity investment in Turkey, which was moved to
 Corporate/Other 
in the first quarter of 2012. Net interest revenue increased 17%, driven by 
the absence of Akbank investment funding costs and growth in average 
deposits of 5%, average retail loans of 16% and average cards loans of 6%, 
partially offset by spread compression. Interest rate caps on credit cards, 
particularly in Turkey and Poland, the continued liquidation of a higher 

yielding non-strategic retail banking portfolio and the continued low interest 
rate environment were the main contributors to the lower spreads. Citi 
expects spread compression to continue to negatively impact revenues in this 
business during 2013. Non-interest revenue decreased 20%, mainly reflecting 
the absence of Akbank.Expenses grew 12%, primarily due to the $57 million of fourth quarter of 2012 repositioning charges in Turkey, Romania and Pakistan and the impact 

of continued investment spending on new internal operating platforms 
during the year.Provisions increased $43 million due to lower loan loss reserve releases, partially offset by lower net credit losses across most countries. Net credit 
losses continued to decline, decreasing 36% due to the ongoing improvement 
in credit quality and the move toward lower-risk customers. Citi believes 

that net credit losses in EMEA RCB have largely stabilized and assuming the 
underlying core portfolio continues to grow in 2013, credit costs could begin 
to rise.Net income decreased 1%, as an improvement in credit costs was offset by 
higher expenses from increased investment spending and lower revenues.Revenues decreased 1%, driven by the liquidation of higher yielding non-strategic customer portfolios and a lower contribution from Akbank. Net 
interest revenue declined 1% due to the decline in the higher yielding non-
strategic retail banking portfolio and spread compression in the Citi-branded 
cards portfolio. Interest rate caps on credit cards, particularly in Turkey and 

Poland, contributed to the lower spreads in the cards portfolio. Non-interest 
revenue decreased 2%, mainly reflecting the lower contribution from Akbank. 
Despite the negative impacts to revenues described above, underlying 
businesses showed growth, with investment sales up 28% from the prior year 
and cards purchase sales up 15%.Expenses increased 7% due to the impact of account acquisition, focused investment spending and higher transactional expenses, partly offset by 
continued savings initiatives.Provisions decreased 70%, driven by a reduction in net credit losses. Net credit losses decreased 46%, reflecting the continued credit quality 
improvement during the year, stricter underwriting criteria and the move to 

lower-risk
 products.20Latin America Regional Consumer Banking (Latin America RCB) provides traditional banking and Citi-branded card services to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses, with the largest presence in Mexico and Brazil. Latin America RCB includes branch networks throughout Latin America as well as Banco Nacional de Mexico, or Banamex, Mexico™s second-largest bank, with over 1,700 branches. As announced in the fourth quarter of 2012, as part of its repositioning efforts, Citi expects to either sell or significantly scale back consumer operations in Paraguay and Uruguay, and expects to further optimize its 
branch network in Brazil. At December 31, 2012, Latin America RCB had 2,181 retail branches, with approximately 31.8 million customer accounts, $28.3 
billion in retail banking loans and $48.6 billion in deposits. In addition, the business had approximately 12.9 million Citi-branded card accounts with $14.8 
billion in outstanding loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
% Change 2012 vs. 2011
˝˜˚˛˚
$6,695

4%3,007
Š˛˛Total revenues, net of interest expense
$9,702

2%
$5,702

(1)%˛˜˙$1,750

4%
299
NM
167˛˜š
28˜
$2,216

27%
$1,784

(9)%274
(29)Income from continuing operations$1,510

(4)%(2)
Š˛˚˚Net income $1,512

(4)%Balance Sheet data˝(in billions of dollars)⁄
$80
˝˝˝š˜
Š%˛˛˙
1.89%
›…
59%
⁄
$45.0

(2)˛’
4.34%
Revenue by business$5,766

5%3,936
(2)˛˚Total
$9,702

2%Income from continuing operations by business˝$  861

(5)%˝649
(4)Total$1,510

(4)%Foreign Currency (FX) Translation Impact

$9,702

2%
Š

$9,702

9%š˙
$5,702

(1)%˛˜˙
Š

$5,702

6%˛˚˙
$2,216

27%
Š

$2,216

39%$1,512

(4)%
Š
$1,512

Š%˝
˝˝21The discussion of the results of operations for Latin America RCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentation of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of Latin America 
RCB™s results excluding the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a 
reconciliation of certain of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.Net income was flat to the prior year as higher revenues were offset by higher 
credit costs and repositioning charges.Revenues increased 9%, primarily due to strong revenue growth in Mexico and higher volumes, mostly related to personal loans and credit 
cards. However, continued regulatory pressure involving foreign exchange 

controls and related measures in Argentina and Venezuela is expected to 

negatively impact revenues in the near term. Net interest revenue increased 
10% due to increased volumes, partially offset by continued spread 
compression. Citi expects spread compression to continue to negatively 
impact revenues in this business during 2013. Non-interest revenue increased 
7%, primarily due to increased business volumes in the private pension fund 
and insurance businesses.Expenses increased 6%, primarily due to $131 million of repositioning charges in the fourth quarter of 2012, higher volume-driven expenses and 
increased legal and related costs.Provisions increased 39%, primarily due to increased loan loss reserve builds driven by underlying business volume growth, primarily in Mexico 
and Colombia. In addition, net credit losses increased in the retail portfolios, 
primarily in Mexico, reflecting volume growth. Citi believes that net credit 
losses in Latin America will likely continue to trend higher as various loan 
portfolios continue to mature.Net income declined 14% as higher revenues were more than offset by higher 
expenses and higher credit costs.Revenues increased 7% primarily due to higher volumes. Net interest revenue increased 6% driven by the continued growth in lending and 
deposit volumes, partially offset by spread compression driven in part by 
the continued move toward customers with a lower risk profile and stricter 
underwriting criteria, especially in the Citi-branded cards portfolio. Non-
interest revenue increased 8%, primarily driven by an increase in banking fee 
income from credit card purchase sales.Expenses increased 10% due to higher volumes and investment spending, including increased marketing and customer acquisition costs as well as new 
branches, partially offset by continued savings initiatives. The increase in the 
level of investment spending in the business was largely completed at the end 
of 2011.Provisions increased 43%, reflecting lower loan loss reserve releases. Net credit losses declined 13%, driven primarily by improvements in the Mexico 
cards portfolio due to the move toward customers with a lower-risk profile 

and stricter underwriting criteria.22Asia Regional Consumer Banking (Asia RCB) provides traditional banking and Citi-branded card services to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses, with the largest Citi presence in Korea, Australia, Singapore, Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong, India and Indonesia. As announced in the fourth quarter 
of 2012, as part of its repositioning efforts, Citi expects to optimize its branch network and further concentrate its presence in major metropolitan areas. The 
markets affected by the reductions include Hong Kong and Korea. At December 31, 2012, Asia RCB had approximately 600 retail branches, 16.9 million customer accounts, $69.7 billion in retail banking loans and $110 billion in deposits. In addition, the business had approximately 16.0 million Citi-branded 
card accounts with $20.4 billion in outstanding loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
% Change 2012 vs. 2011
˝˜˚˛˚
$5,142

(4)%2,773
5˛’Total revenues, net of interest expense
$7,915

(1)%
$4,750

3%$841

(5)%
(36)
43
$805

(2)%
$2,360

(8)%563
(15)Income from continuing operations$1,797

(6)%Š
ŠNet income$1,797

(6)%Balance Sheet data˝(in billions of dollars)⁄
$126
˛˜˜
3%
1.43%
›…
60%
⁄
$110.8

Š˛˛
0.95%
Revenue by business$4,727

(4)%3,188
3Total
$7,915

(1)%Income from continuing operations by business$969

(19)%828
17Total
$1,797

(6)%Foreign Currency (FX) Translation Impact

$7,915

(1)%
Š

$7,915

Š%’˙
$4,750

3%
Š

$4,750

4%
$805

(2)%
Š

$805
šš˛
(1)%$1,797

(6)%
Š
$1,797

(4)%˝
˝˝23The discussion of the results of operations for Asia RCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentation of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of Asia RCB™s results excluding the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a reconciliation of certain of these 
metrics to the reported results, see the table above.Net income decreased 4% primarily due to higher expenses.Revenues were flat year-over-year. Net interest revenue decreased 3%, 
as the benefit of higher loan and deposit balances was offset by spread 
compression, mainly in retail lending. Spread compression continued to 
reflect improvements in the customer risk profile, stricter underwriting 
criteria and certain regulatory changes in Korea where, as previously 
disclosed, policy actions, including rate caps and other initiatives, have 
been implemented to slow the growth of consumer credit in that market, 
thus impacting volume growth, lending rates and fees. Spread compression 
is expected to continue to have a negative impact on net interest revenue 
as regulatory pressure and low interest rates persist. Non-interest revenue 
increased 6%, reflecting growth in Citi-branded cards purchase sales, partially 

offset by a decrease in revenue from foreign exchange products. Despite the 

continued spread compression and regulatory changes in the region, the 
underlying business metrics continued to grow, with average retail loans up 

6% and average card loans up 2%.Expenses increased 4%, primarily due to approximately $78 million of repositioning charges in the fourth quarter of 2012, largely in Korea, and 
increased investment spending, including China cards and branches, higher 
volume-driven expenses and increased regulatory costs.Provisions decreased 1%, reflecting continued overall credit quality improvement. Net credit losses continued to improve, declining 3% due to 
the ongoing improvement in credit quality. Citi believes that net credit losses 

in Asia RCB will largely remain stable, with increases largely in line with 
portfolio growth.Net income decreased 12%, driven by higher operating expenses, lower 
loan loss reserve releases and a higher effective tax rate, partially offset by 
higher revenue. The higher effective tax rate was due to lower tax benefits 
Accounting Principles Bulletin (APB) 23 and a tax charge of $66 million due 
to a write-down in the value of deferred tax assets due to a change in the tax 
law, each in Japan.Revenues increased 4%, primarily driven by higher business volumes, partially offset by continued spread compression and $65 million of net 
charges relating to the repurchase of certain Lehman structured notes. Net 
interest revenue increased 1%, as investment initiatives and economic growth 
in the region drove higher lending and deposit volumes. Spread compression 
continued to partly offset the benefit of higher balances and continued to 
be driven by stricter underwriting criteria, resulting in a lowering of the risk 
profile for personal and other loans. Non-interest revenue increased 10%, 
primarily due to a 9% increase in Citi-branded cards purchase sales and 
higher revenues from foreign exchange products, partially offset by a 16% 

decrease in investment sales, particularly in the second half of 2011, and the 
net charges for the repurchase of certain Lehman structured notes.Expenses increased 8%, due to investment spending, growth in business volumes, repositioning charges and higher legal and related costs, partially 
offset by ongoing productivity savings.Provisions increased 5% as lower loan loss reserve releases were partially offset by lower net credit losses. The increase in provisions reflected 
increasing volumes in the region, partially offset by continued credit quality 
improvement. India was a significant driver of the improvement in credit 
quality, as it continued to de-risk elements of its legacy
 portfolio.24Institutional Clients Group (ICG) includes Securities and Banking and Transaction Services. ICG provides corporate, institutional, public sector and high-net-worth clients around the world with a full range of products and services, including cash management, foreign exchange, trade finance and services, 
securities services, sales and trading of loans and securities, institutional brokerage, underwriting, lending and advisory services. ICG™s international presence is supported by trading floors in approximately 75 countries and jurisdictions and a proprietary network within Transaction Services in over 95 countries and jurisdictions. At December 31, 2012, ICG had approximately $1.1 trillion of assets and $523 billion of deposits.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
% Change 2012 vs. 2011
˝˜˚˛˚
$4,318

(3)%’˙
2,790
1˛3,618
194,130
(15)(85)
NM
$14,771

(13)%˝15,8295Total revenues, net of interest expense
$30,600

(4)%
$20,232

(3)%$282

(54)%
39
(56)
(45)
92˛˛
$276

82%
$10,092

(9)%2,102
(25)Income from continuing operations$7,990

(3)%128
NMNet income$7,862

(4)%⁄
 (in billions of dollars)$1,042
2%
0.75%
›…
66%
Revenues by regionNorth America$8,668

(13)%EMEA9,993
(7)Latin America
4,816
18Asia7,123
(1)˜Total revenues
$30,600

(4)%Income from continuing operations by regionNorth America$1,481

2%EMEA2,598
(17)Latin America
1,962
22Asia1,949
(5)Total income from continuing operations
$7,990

(3)%⁄
in billions of dollarsNorth America$83

20%EMEA53’š13˜’Latin America
3521Asia6321’’Total average loans
$234

19%˜˚˙˝25Securities and Banking (S&B) offers a wide array of investment and commercial banking services and products for corporations, governments, institutional and public sector entities, and high-net-worth individuals. S&B transacts with clients in both cash instruments and derivatives, including fixed income, foreign currency, equity, and commodity products. S&B includes investment banking and advisory services, lending, debt and equity sales and trading, institutional 
brokerage, derivative services and private banking.S&B revenue is generated primarily from fees and spreads associated with these activities. S&B earns fee income for assisting clients in clearing transactions, providing brokerage and investment banking services and other such activities. Revenue generated from these activities is recorded in Commissions and fees. In addition, as a market maker,
 S&B facilitates transactions, including holding product inventory to meet client demand, and earns the differential between 
the price at which it buys and sells the products. These price differentials and the unrealized gains and losses on the inventory are recorded in Principal transactions. S&B interest income earned on inventory and loans held is recorded as a component of net interest revenue.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
% Change 2012 vs. 2011
˙˜˚˛˚
$9,676

6%10,067
(18)Revenues, net of interest expense
$19,743

(8)%
14,444
(4)168
(72)
33
(62)
(79)
86
$122

5%Income before taxes and noncontrolling interests$5,177

(18)%682
(51)Income from continuing operations$4,495

(9)%111˛˛˚
NMNet income$4,384

(10)%ƒ
(in billions of dollars)$904

1%
0.48%
‹•
73%
Revenues by regionNorth America$6,104

(19)%EMEA6,417
(11)’Latin America
3,019
27Asia4,203
(2)Total revenues
$19,743

(8)%Income from continuing operations by regionNorth America$1,011

(3)%EMEA1,354
(32)˛˚Latin America
1,308
34Asia822
(8)Total income from continuing operations
$4,495

(9)%Securities and Bankingƒ‰„−

$3,641

10%13,961
282,418
1997
(45)
2,314
8Securities and Banking(1,101)
(28)Total 
Securities and Banking revenues (ex-CVA/DVA)
$22,230

13%CVA/DVA 
$(2,487)

NMTotal revenues, net of interest expense
$19,743

(8)%˙26Net income decreased 10%. Excluding $2.5 billion of negative CVA/DVA (see table below), net income increased 56%, primarily driven by a 13% increase 
in revenues.Revenues decreased 8%, driven by the negative CVA/DVA and mark-to-
market losses on hedges related to accrual loans. Excluding CVA/DVA:
 Revenues increased 13%, reflecting higher revenues in most major S&B businesses. Overall, Citi gained wallet share during 2012 in most 
major products and regions, while maintaining what it believes to be a 
disciplined risk appetite for the market environment. Fixed income markets revenues increased 28%, reflecting strong 
performance in rates and currencies and higher revenues in credit-related 
and securitized products. These results reflected an improved market 
environment and more balanced trading flows, particularly in the 
second half of 2012. Rates and currencies performance reflected strong 
client and trading results in G-10 FX, G-10 rates and Citi™s local markets 
franchise. Credit products, securitized markets and municipals products 
experienced improved trading results, particularly in the second half of 
2012, compared to the prior-year period. Citi™s position serving corporate 
clients for markets products also contributed to the strength and diversity 
of client flows. Equity markets revenues increased 1%, due to improved derivatives 
performance as well as the absence of proprietary trading losses in 
2011, partially offset by lower cash equity volumes that impacted the 
industry as a whole. Citi™s improved performance in derivatives reflected 
improved trading and continued progress in capturing additional client 
wallet share. Investment banking revenues increased 10%, reflecting increases in 
debt underwriting and advisory revenues, partially offset by lower equity 
underwriting revenues. Debt underwriting revenues rose 18%, driven by 
increases in investment grade and high yield bond issuances. Advisory 
revenues increased 4%, despite the overall reduction in market activity 
during the year. Equity underwriting revenues declined 7%, driven by 
lower levels of market and client activity. Lending revenues decreased 45%, driven by the mark-to-market losses 
on hedges related to accrual loans (see table below). The loss on lending 
hedges compared to a gain in the prior year, resulted from CDS spreads 
narrowing during 2012. Excluding lending hedges related to accrual 
loans, lending revenues increased 31%, primarily driven by growth in the 
Corporate loan portfolio and improved spreads in most regions. Private Bank revenues increased 8%, driven by growth in client assets as a 
result of client acquisition and development efforts in Citi™s targeted client 
segments. Deposit volumes, investment assets under management and 
loans all increased, while pricing and product mix optimization initiatives 
offset underlying spread compression across products.Expenses decreased 4%. Excluding repositioning charges of $349 million in 2012 (including $237 million in the fourth quarter of 2012) compared to $267 million in 2011, expenses also decreased 4%, driven by efficiency 
savings from ongoing re-engineering programs and lower compensation 
costs. The repositioning efforts in S&B announced in the fourth quarter of 2012 are designed to streamline S&B™s client coverage model and improve 

overall productivity.
Provisions increased 5% to $122 million, primarily reflecting lower loan loss reserve releases, partially offset by lower net credit losses, both due to 
portfolio stabilization.27Net income decreased 24%. Excluding $1.7 billion of positive CVA/DVA (see table below), net income decreased 43%, primarily driven by lower revenues 
in most products and higher expenses.Revenues decreased 7%, driven by lower revenues partially offset by positive CVA/DVA resulting from the widening of Citi™s credit spreads in 2011. 

Excluding CVA/DVA:
 Revenues decreased 16%, reflecting lower revenues in fixed income markets, equity markets and investment banking revenues. Fixed income markets revenues decreased 24%, due to significant year-
over-year declines in spread products and, to a lesser extent, a decline in 
rates and currencies reflecting adverse market conditions, particularly 
during the second half of 2011 when the trading environment was 
significantly more challenging. The declines in trading volumes made 
hedging and market-making more challenging, particularly in less 
liquid products such as credit, securitized markets, and municipals. Citi™s 
concerted effort to reduce overall risk positions to respond to a decline 
in liquidity, particularly in the latter half of 2011, also contributed to 
the decrease. Equity markets revenues decreased 35%, driven by declining revenues in 
equity proprietary trading as positions in the business were wound down, 
a decline in equity derivatives revenues and, to a lesser extent, a decline 
in cash equities. The wind-down of Citi™s equity proprietary trading was 
completed at the end of 2011. Also, equity markets experienced adverse 
market conditions during the second half of 2011. Investment banking revenues decreased 14%, as the macroeconomic 
concerns and market uncertainty drove lower volumes in debt and equity 
issuance and declines in equity underwriting, debt underwriting, and 
advisory revenues. Equity underwriting revenues declined 28%, largely 
driven by the absence of strong IPO activity in Asia in the fourth quarter 
of 2010. Debt underwriting declined 10%, primarily due to lower bond 
issuance activity. Advisory revenues declined 5%, due to lower levels of 
client activity. Lending revenues increased 86%, driven by a mark-to-market gain in 
hedges related to accrual loans (see table below), resulting from CDS 
spreads widening during 2011. Excluding lending hedges related to 
accrual loans, lending revenues increased 25%, primarily due to growth 
in the Corporate loan portfolio in all regions. Private Bank revenues increased 6%, driven by growth in both lending 
and deposit products and improved customer spreads.Expenses increased 3%, primarily due to investment spending, which largely occurred in the first half of 2011, relating to new hires and technology investments. The increase in expenses was also driven by higher 
repositioning charges and the negative impact of FX translation (which 
contributed approximately 2% to the expense growth), partially offset by 
productivity saves and reduced incentive compensation due to business 
results. The increase in the level of investment spending in S&B was largely completed at the end of 2011.Provisions increased $140 million, primarily due to builds in the allowance for unfunded lending commitments as a result of portfolio growth 
and higher net credit losses.In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
S&B CVA/DVA
$(2,047)

(424)


(16)

Total 
S&B CVA/DVA
$(2,487)

S&B Hedges on Accrual Loans gain (loss) (1)$(698)

˙S&B
˙

28Transaction Services is composed of Treasury and Trade Solutions and Securities and Fund Services. Treasury and Trade Solutions provides comprehensive cash management and trade finance services for corporations, financial institutions and public sector entities worldwide. Securities and Fund Services provides 
securities services to investors, such as global asset managers, custody and clearing services to intermediaries, such as broker-dealers, and depository and 
agency/trust services to multinational corporations and governments globally. Revenue is generated from net interest revenue on deposits and trade loans as 
well as fees for transaction processing and fees on assets under custody and administration.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
% Change 2012 vs. 2011
˙˜˚˛˚
$6,153

4%4,704
1Total revenues, net of interest expense
$10,857

3%’
5,788
1˛’
154
NMIncome before taxes and noncontrolling interests$4,915

3%1,420
(1)
3,495
417˜˛(11)Net income$3,478

4%ƒ
(in billions of dollars)$138

6%˜˛
2.52%
‹•
53%’˚˝
Revenues by regionNorth America$2,564

5%EMEA3,576
3Latin America
1,797
5˛˜Asia2,920
(1)Total revenues
$10,857

3%’˝Income from continuing operations by regionNorth America$470

13%EMEA1,244
10Latin America
654
2Asia1,127
(3)Total income from continuing operations
$3,495

4%Foreign Currency (FX) Translation Impact

$10,857

3%’˝
Š

$10,857

5%
$5,788

1%˛’˝
Š
$5,788

2%$3,478

4%
Š
$3,478

10%Key indicators (in billions of dollars)ƒ
$404

11%
Š˛ƒ
$404

13%˙(in trillions of dollars)$13.2

10%˙
˙

˙29The discussion of the results of operations for Transaction Services below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentation of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of Transaction 
Services™ results excluding the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a 
reconciliation of certain of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.Net income increased 10%, reflecting growth in revenues, partially offset by 
higher expenses and credit costs.Revenues increased 5% as higher trade loan and deposit balances were partially offset by continued spread compression and lower market 
volumes. Treasury and Trade Solutions revenues were up 8%, driven by 

growth in trade as end-of-period trade loans grew 23%. Cash management 
revenues also grew, reflecting growth in deposit balances and fees, partially 

offset by continued spread compression due to the continued low interest 
rate environment. Securities and Fund Services revenues decreased 2%, 
primarily driven by lower market volumes as well as spread compression on 
deposits. Citi expects spread compression will continue to negatively impact 
Transaction Services
.Expenses increased 2%. Excluding repositioning charges of $134 million in 2012 (including $95 million in the fourth quarter of 2012) compared 
to $60 million in 2011, expenses were flat, primarily driven by incremental 
investment spending and higher legal and related costs, offset by 
efficiency savings.Average deposits and other customer liabilities grew 13%, driven by focused deposit building activities as well as continued market demand 
for U.S. dollar deposits (for additional information on Citi™s deposits, see 

ﬁCapital Resources and LiquidityŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below).Net income decreased 11%, as higher expenses, driven by investment 
spending, outpaced revenue growth.Revenues grew 3%, driven primarily by international growth, as improvement in fees and increased deposit balances more than offset the 
continued spread compression. Treasury and Trade Solutions revenues 

increased 4%, driven primarily by growth in the trade and commercial 
cards businesses and increased deposits, partially offset by the impact of 
the continued low rate environment. Securities and Fund Services revenues 
increased 1%, primarily due to growth in transaction and settlement 
volumes, driven in part by the increase in activity resulting from market 
volatility, and new client mandates.
Expenses increased 14%, reflecting investment spending and higher business volumes, partially offset by productivity savings. Average deposits and other customer liabilities grew 7% and included the shift to operating balances as the business continued to emphasize 
more stable, lower cost deposits as a way to mitigate spread compression 
(for additional information on Citi™s deposits, see ﬁCapital Resources and 

LiquidityŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below).30Corporate/Other includes unallocated global staff functions (including finance, risk, human resources, legal and compliance), other corporate expenses and unallocated global operations and technology expenses, Corporate Treasury and discontinued operations. At December 31, 2012, this segment had 
approximately $249 billion of assets, or 13%, of Citigroup™s total assets, consisting primarily of Citi™s liquidity portfolio (approximately $46 billion of cash and 
cash equivalents and $145 billion of liquid available-for-sale securities, each as of December 31, 2012).In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
$(271)

463Revenues, net of interest expense
$192


$3,214


(1)˛
$(3,021)


(1,396)Income (loss) from continuing operations$(1,625)


(149)˛˛˜Net income (loss) before attribution of noncontrolling interests$(1,774)

85Net income (loss)$(1,859)
˜˜˜
The net loss increased by $1.3 billion due to a decrease in revenues and an 
increase in repositioning charges and legal and related expenses. The net 
loss increased despite a $582 million tax benefit related to the resolution 
of certain tax audit items in the third quarter of 2012 (see the ﬁExecutive 
Summaryﬂ above for a discussion of this tax benefit as well as the impact of 
minority investments on the results of operations of Corporate/Other during 2012, also as discussed below).Revenues decreased $693 million, driven by an other-than-temporary 
impairment of pretax $(1.2) billion on Citi™s investment in Akbank and a 

loss of pretax $424 million on the partial sale of Akbank, as well as lower 
investment yields on Citi™s treasury portfolio and the negative impact of 

hedging activities. These negative impacts to revenues were partially offset 
by an aggregate pretax gain on the sales of Citi™s remaining interest in HDFC 

and its interest in SPDB.Expenses increased by $921 million, largely driven by higher legal and related costs, as well as higher repositioning charges, including $253 million 
in the fourth quarter of 2012.The net loss of $589 million reflected a decline of $811 million compared to 
net income of $222 million in 2010. This decline was primarily due to lower 
revenues and higher expenses.Revenues decreased $869 million, primarily driven by lower investment 
yields on Citi™s treasury portfolio and lower gains on sales of available-for-sale 

securities, partially offset by gains on hedging activities and the gain on the sale 

of a portion of Citi™s holdings in HDFC (see the ﬁExecutive Summaryﬂ above).
Expenses increased $787 million, due to higher legal and related costs and investment spending, primarily in technology.
31Citi Holdings contains businesses and portfolios of assets that Citigroup has determined are not central to its core Citicorp businesses and consists of Brokerage and Asset Management, Local Consumer Lending and Special Asset Pool.Consistent with its strategy, Citi intends to continue to exit these businesses and portfolios as quickly as practicable in an economically rational manner. 
Citi Holdings assets have declined by approximately $302 billion since the end of 2009. To date, the decrease in Citi Holdings assets has been primarily driven 
by asset sales and business dispositions, as well as portfolio run-off and pay-downs. Asset levels have also been impacted, and will continue to be impacted, by 
charge-offs and fair value marks as and when appropriate. Citi expects the wind-down of the assets in Citi Holdings will continue, although likely at a slower 
pace than experienced over the past several years as Citi has already disposed of some of the larger operating businesses within Citi Holdings (see also ﬁRisk 
FactorsŠBusiness and Operational Risksﬂ below).As of December 31, 2012, Citi Holdings assets were approximately $156 billion, a decrease of approximately 31% year-over-year and a decrease of 9% from 
September 30, 2012. The decline in assets of $69 billion in 2012 was composed of a decline of approximately $17 billion related to MSSB (primarily consisting 
of $6.6 billion related to the sale of Citi™s 14% interest and impairment on the remaining investment and approximately $11 billion of margin loans), 

$18 billion of other asset sales and business dispositions, $30 billion of run-off and pay-downs and $4 billion of charge-offs and fair value marks. Citi Holdings represented approximately 8% of Citi™s assets as of December 31, 2012, while Citi Holdings risk-weighted assets (as defined under current regulatory guidelines) of approximately $144 billion at December 31, 2012 represented approximately 15% of Citi™s risk-weighted assets as of that date.
In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
% Change 2012 vs. 2011
˙˜˚˛˚
$2,577

(30)%(3,410)
NMTotal revenues, net of interest expense
$(833)

NMProvisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$5,842

(32)%
(1,551)
53
$4,291

(19)%
651
(16)Š
(56)
(37)’˚
$4,886

(19)%Total operating expenses
$5,253

(19)%Loss from continuing operations before taxes$(10,972)

(76)%
(4,412)
NM(Loss) from continuing operations$(6,560)

(60)%3
(97)Citi Holdings net loss$(6,563)

(55)%Balance sheet data (in billions of dollars)Average assets
$194

(28)%
(3.38)%
‹•
NM

$156
˜˜’
(31)
116
(18)
$68

10˙32Brokerage and Asset Management (BAM) primarily consists of Citi™s remaining investment in, and assets related to, MSSB. At December 31, 2012, BAM had approximately $9 billion of assets, or approximately 6% of Citi Holdings assets, of which approximately $8 billion related to MSSB. During 2012, BAM™s assets declined 67% due to the decline in assets related to MSSB (see discussion below). At December 31, 2012, the MSSB assets were composed of an approximate $4.7 billion equity investment and $3 billion of other MSSB financing (consisting of approximately $2 billion of preferred stock and $1 billion of loans). For 
information on the agreement entered into with Morgan Stanley regarding MSSB on September 11, 2012, see Citigroup™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the SEC on September 11, 2012. The remaining assets in BAM consist of other retail alternative investments.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
% Change 2012 vs. 2011
˙˜˚˛˚
$(471)

NM(4,228)

NMTotal revenues, net of interest expense
$(4,699)

NM
$462

(37)%$Š

(100)%
(1)

67
Š
100
Š
(100)
$(1)

NM’’˝
$(5,160)

NM(1,970)

NMLoss from continuing operations$(3,190)

NM3˛˛
(67)%Net (loss)$(3,193)

NM(in billions of dollars)$9

(67)%Š˝(in billions of dollars)59’’
7˙The net loss in BAM increased by $2.9 billion due to the loss related to MSSB, 
consisting of (i) an $800 million after-tax loss on Citi™s sale of the 14% 
interest in MSSB to Morgan Stanley and (ii) a $2.1 billion after-tax other-
than-temporary impairment of the carrying value of Citigroup™s remaining 
35% interest in MSSB. For additional information on MSSB, see Note 15 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements. Excluding the impact of MSSB, the 
net loss in BAM was flat.Revenues decreased by $5.0 billion to $(4.7) billion due to the MSSB impact described above. Excluding this impact, revenues in BAM were $(15) million, compared to $282 million in the prior-year period, due to higher funding costs related to MSSB assets, partially offset by a higher equity 
contribution from MSSB.Expenses decreased 37%, primarily driven by lower legal and related costs. 
Provisions decreased by $49 million due to the absence of certain unfunded lending commitments. The net loss increased 24% as lower revenues were partly offset by lower 
expenses.Revenues decreased by 54%, driven by the 2010 sale of Citi™s Habitat and 
Colfondos businesses (including a $78 million pretax gain on sale related to 
the transactions in the first quarter of 2010) and lower revenues from MSSB.Expenses decreased 26%, also driven by divestitures, as well as lower legal and related expenses.Provisions increased 55%, primarily due to the absence of the prior-year 
reserve releases.33Local Consumer Lending (LCL) includes a substantial portion of Citigroup™s North America mortgage business (see ﬁNorth America Consumer Mortgage Lendingﬂ below), CitiFinancial North America (consisting of the OneMain and CitiFinancial Servicing businesses), remaining student loans and credit card portfolios, and other local consumer finance businesses globally (including Western European cards and retail banking and Japan Consumer Finance). At 
December 31, 2012, LCL consisted of approximately $126 billion of assets (with approximately $123 billion in North America), or approximately 81% of Citi Holdings assets, and thus represents the largest segment within Citi Holdings. The North America assets primarily consist of residential mortgages (residential first mortgages and home equity loans), which stood at $92 billion as of December 31, 2012.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
% Change 2012 vs. 2011
˙˜˚˛˚
$3,335

(22)%1,031
(12)Total revenues, net of interest expense
$4,366

(20)%
$4,465

(18)%$5,870

(22)%
(1,410)
1
651
(11)
$5,111

(25)%
$(5,210)

24%
(2,017)
16(Loss) from continuing operations$(3,193)

28%Š˜(100)Net (loss)$(3,193)

28%Balance sheet data (in billions of dollars)ƒ
$142

(24)%
(2.25)%
‹•
102%˛˚˚˝
$126

(20)
4.72%
The net loss decreased by 28%, driven mainly by the improved credit 
environment primarily in North America mortgages.Revenues decreased 20%, primarily due to a 22% net interest revenue decline resulting from a 24% decline in loan balances. This decline was 
driven by continued asset sales, divestitures and run-off. Non-interest 
revenue decreased 12%, primarily due to portfolio run-off, partially offset 
by a lower repurchase reserve build. The repurchase reserve build was 
$700 million compared to $945 million in 2011 (see ﬁManaging Global 
RiskŠCredit RiskŠCitigroup Residential MortgagesŠRepresentations and 
Warrantiesﬂ
 below).Expenses decreased 18%, driven by lower volumes and divestitures. Legal and related expenses in LCL remained elevated due to the previously disclosed 
$305 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2012, related to the settlement 
agreement reached with the Federal Reserve Board and OCC regarding the 
independent foreclosure review process required by the Federal Reserve 
Board and OCC consent orders entered into in April 2011 (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCredit RiskŠNorth America Consumer Mortgage LendingŠ
Independent Foreclosure Review Settlementﬂ below). In addition, legal and 
related expenses were elevated due to additional reserves related to payment 
protection insurance (PPI) (see ﬁPayment Protection Insuranceﬂ below) and 
other legal and related matters impacting the business.Provisions decreased 25%, driven primarily by the improved credit environment in North America mortgages, lower volumes and divestitures. 
Net credit losses decreased by 22%, despite being impacted by incremental 
charge-offs of approximately $635 million in the third quarter of 2012 
relating to OCC guidance regarding the treatment of mortgage loans 
where the borrower has gone through Chapter 7 bankruptcy (see Note 1 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements) and $370 million of incremental 
charge-offs in the first quarter of 2012 related to previously deferred principal 
balances on modified mortgages related to anticipated forgiveness of 
principal in connection with the national mortgage settlement. Substantially 
all of these charge-offs were offset by reserve releases. In addition, net credit 
losses in 2012 were negatively impacted by an additional aggregate amount 34of $146 million related to the national mortgage settlement. Citi expects that net credit losses in LCL will continue to be negatively impacted by 
Citi™s fulfillment of the terms of the national mortgage settlement through 

the second quarter of 2013 (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCredit RiskŠ
National Mortgage Settlementﬂ below).Excluding the incremental charge-offs arising from the OCC guidance and the previously deferred balances on modified mortgages, net credit losses 
in LCL would have declined 35%, with net credit losses in North America mortgages decreasing by 20%, other portfolios in North America by 56% 
and international by 49%. These declines were driven by lower overall asset 
levels driven partly by the sale of delinquent loans as well as underlying credit 
improvements. While Citi expects some continued improvement in credit 
going forward, declines in net credit losses in LCL will largely be driven by 
declines in asset levels, including continued sales of delinquent residential 
first mortgages (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCredit RiskŠNorth America 
Consumer Mortgage LendingŠNorth America Consumer Mortgage 
Quarterly Credit Trendsﬂ below).
Average assets declined 24%, driven by the impact of asset sales and portfolio run-off, including declines of $16 billion in North America mortgage loans and $11 billion in international average assets.The net loss decreased 18%, driven primarily by the improving credit 
environment, including lower net credit losses and higher loan loss reserve 
releases in mortgages. The improvement in credit was partly offset by lower 
revenues due to decreasing asset balances and sales.Revenues decreased 38%, driven primarily by the lower asset balances due to asset sales, divestitures and run-offs, which also drove the 40% decline in 
net interest revenue. Non-interest revenue decreased 30% due to the impact 
of divestitures. The repurchase reserve build was $945 million compared to 
$917 million in 2010.Expenses decreased 6%, driven by the lower volumes and divestitures, partly offset by higher legal and related expenses, including those relating to 
the national mortgage settlement, reserves related to potential PPI refunds 
(see ﬁPayment Protection Insuranceﬂ below) and implementation costs 
associated with the Federal Reserve Board and OCC consent orders (see 
ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCredit RiskŠNorth America Consumer Mortgage 
LendingŠNational Mortgage Settlementﬂ below).Provisions decreased 43%, driven by lower credit losses and higher loan loss reserve releases. Net credit losses decreased 37%, primarily due to the 
credit improvements of $1.6 billion in North America mortgages, although 
the pace of the decline in net credit losses slowed. Loan loss reserve releases 
increased 85%, driven by higher releases in CitiFinancial North America due 
to better credit quality and lower loan balances.Average assets declined 34%, primarily driven by portfolio run-off and the impact of asset sales and divestitures, including continued sales of student 
loans, auto loans and delinquent mortgages.35Citi continues to actively monitor various aspects of its Japan Consumer Finance business, including customer defaults, refund claims and litigation, 
as well as financial, legislative, regulatory, judicial and other political 
developments, relating to the charging of ﬁgray zoneﬂ interest. Gray zone 
interest represents interest at rates that are legal but for which claims may 
not be enforceable. In 2008, Citi decided to exit its Japan Consumer Finance 
business and has liquidated approximately 85% of the portfolio since that 
time. As of December 31, 2012, Citi™s Japan Consumer Finance business 
had approximately $709 million in outstanding loans that currently charge 
or have previously charged interest rates in the gray zone, compared to 
approximately $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2011. However, Citi could also 
be subject to refund claims on previously outstanding loans that charged 
gray zone interest and thus could be subject to losses on loans in excess of 
these amounts.During 2012, LCL recorded a net decrease in its reserves related to customer refunds in the Japan Consumer Finance business of approximately 
$117 million (pretax) compared to an increase in reserves of approximately 
$119 million (pretax) in 2011. At December 31, 2012, Citi™s reserves 

related to customer refunds in the Japan Consumer Finance business were 
approximately $736 million. Although Citi recorded a net decrease in its 
reserves in 2012, the charging of gray zone interest continues to be a focus 
in Japan. Regulators in Japan have stated that they are planning to submit 
legislation to establish a framework for collective legal action proceedings. 
If such legislation is passed and implemented, it could potentially introduce 
a more accessible procedure for current and former customers to pursue 
refund claims.Citi continues to monitor and evaluate these developments and the potential impact to both currently and previously outstanding loans in this 
business and its reserves related thereto. The potential amount of losses and 
their impact on Citi is subject to significant uncertainty and continues to be 
difficult to predict.The alleged misselling of PPI by financial institutions in the U.K. has 

been, and continues to be, the subject of intense review and focus by U.K. 

regulators, particularly the Financial Services Authority (FSA). The FSA has 
found certain problems across the industry with how these products were 
sold, including customers not realizing that the cost of PPI premiums was 
being added to their loan or PPI being unsuitable for the customer.PPI is designed to cover a customer™s loan repayments if certain events 
occur, such as long-term illness or unemployment. Prior to 2008, certain of 

Citi™s U.K. consumer finance businesses, primarily CitiFinancial Europe plc 

and Canada Square Operations Ltd (formerly Egg Banking plc), engaged in 
the sale of PPI. While Citi has sold a significant portion of these businesses, 
and the remaining businesses are in the process of wind down, Citi generally 
remains subject to customer complaints for, and retains the potential liability 

relating to, the sale of PPI by these businesses.In 2011, the FSA required all firms engaged in the sale of PPI in the U.K. to review their historical sales processes for PPI. In addition, the FSA 
is requiring all such firms to contact proactively any customers who may 
have been mis-sold PPI after January 2005 and invite them to have their 
individual sale reviewed (Customer Contact Exercise).Citi initiated a pilot Customer Contact Exercise during the third quarter of 2012 and expects to initiate the full Customer Contact Exercise during the 
first quarter of 2013; however, the timing and details of the Customer Contact 

Exercise are subject to discussion and agreement with the FSA. While Citi 
is not required to contact customers proactively for the sale of PPI prior to 
January 2005, it is still subject to customer complaints for those sales.During the third quarter of 2012, the FSA also requested that a number of firms, including Citi, re-evaluate PPI customer complaints that were 
reviewed and rejected prior to December 2010 to determine if, based on 
the current regulations for the assessment of PPI complaints, customers 
would have been entitled to redress (Customer Re-Evaluation Exercise). Citi 
currently expects to complete the Customer Re-Evaluation Exercise by the 
end of the first quarter of 2013.Redress, whether as a result of customer complaints pursuant to or outside of the required Customer Contact Exercise, or pursuant to the 
Customer Re-Evaluation Exercise, generally involves the repayment of 
premiums and the refund of all applicable contractual interest together with 
compensatory interest of 8%. Citi estimates that the number of PPI policies 
sold after January 2005 (across all applicable Citi businesses in the U.K.) 

was approximately 417,000, for which premiums totaling approximately 
$490 million were collected. As noted above, however, Citi also remains 

subject to customer complaints on the sale of PPI prior to January 2005, and 
thus it could be subject to customer complaints substantially higher than 
this amount.During 2012, Citi increased its PPI reserves by approximately $266 million 
($175 million of which was recorded in LCL and $91 million of which was 
recorded in Corporate/Other for discontinued operations). This amount 
included a $148 million reserve increase in the fourth quarter of 2012 
($57 million of which was recorded in LCL and $91 million of which was recorded in Corporate/Other for discontinued operations). PPI claims paid 
during 2012 totaled $181 million, which were charged against the reserve. 
The increase in the reserves during 2012 was mainly due to a significant 
increase in the level of customer complaints outside of the Customer Contact 
Exercise, which Citi believes is largely as a result of the continued regulatory 
focus and increased customer awareness of PPI issues across the industry. 

The fourth quarter of 2012 reserve increase was also driven by a higher than 
anticipated rate of response to the pilot Customer Contact Exercise, which Citi 
believes was also likely due in part to the heightened awareness of PPI issues. 
At December 31, 2012, Citi™s PPI reserve was $376 million.
While the number of customer complaints regarding the sale of PPI significantly increased in 2012, and the number could continue to increase, 
the potential losses and impact on Citi remain volatile and are subject to 
significant uncertainty.
36The Special Asset Pool (SAP) consists of a portfolio of securities, loans and other assets that Citigroup intends to continue to reduce over time through asset sales and portfolio run-off. SAP had approximately $21 billion of assets as of December 31, 2012, which constituted approximately 13% of Citi Holdings assets. In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚% Change 2012 vs. 2011
˙˜˚˛˚
$(287)

29%(213)
NMRevenues, net of interest expense
$(500)

NM“
$326

11%$(28)

NM
(140)
92
(56)(40)
$(224)

73%
$(602)

NM(425)NMNet income (loss) from continuing operations$(177)

NMŠ˛˚†˛††(100)%Net income (loss)$(177)

NM (in billions of dollars)$21
†˚
(49)%The net loss of $177 million reflected a decline of $665 million compared to 
net income of $488 million in 2011, mainly driven by a decrease in revenues 
and higher credit costs, partially offset by a tax benefit on the sale of a 

business in 2012.Revenues were $(500) million. CVA/DVA was $157 million, compared 
to $74 million in 2011. Excluding the impact of CVA/DVA, revenues in 
SAP 
were $(657) million, compared to $473 million in 2011. The decline in 
revenues was driven in part by lower non-interest revenue due to the absence 
of positive private equity marks and lower gains on asset sales, as well as an 
aggregate repurchase reserve build in 2012 of approximately $244 million 
related to private-label mortgage securitizations (see ﬁManaging Global 
RiskŠCredit RiskŠCitigroup Residential MortgagesŠRepresentations 
and Warrantiesﬂ below). The loss in net interest revenues improved from the 

prior year due to lower funding costs, but remained negative. Citi expects 
continued negative net interest revenues, as interest earning assets continue 
to be a smaller portion of the overall asset pool. Expenses increased 11%, driven by higher legal and related costs, partially offset by lower expenses from lower volume and asset levels.Provisions were a benefit of $224 million, which represented a 73% decline from 2011 due to a decrease in loan loss reserve releases (a release of 
$140 million compared to a release of $1.9 billion in 2011), partially offset 
by a $1.1 billion decline in net credit losses.Assets declined 49% to $21 billion, primarily driven by sales, amortization and prepayments. Asset sales of $11 billion generated pretax gains of 
approximately $0.3 billion, compared to asset sales of $29 billion and pretax 
gains of $0.5 billion in 2011.Net income decreased 50%, driven by the decrease in revenues due to lower 
asset balances, partially offset by lower expenses and improved credit.Revenues decreased 81%, driven by the overall decline in net interest revenue during the year, as interest-earning assets declined and thus 

represented a smaller portion of the overall asset pool. Non-interest revenue decreased by 42% due to lower gains on asset sales and the absence of positive 
private equity marks from the prior-year period. 
Expenses decreased 49%, driven by lower volume and asset levels, as well as lower legal and related costs.Provisions were a benefit of $827 million, which represented an improvement of $1.1 billion from the prior year, as credit conditions 

improved during 2011. The improvement was primarily driven by a 
$945 million decrease in net credit losses as well as an increase in loan loss reserve releases.Assets declined 49%, primarily driven by sales, amortization and prepayments. Asset sales of $29 billion generated pretax gains of 
approximately $0.5 billion, compared to asset sales of $39 billion and pretax 
gains of $1.3 billion in 2010.37The following sets forth a general discussion of the changes in certain of the more significant line items of Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. For additional information on Citigroup™s aggregate liquidity resources, including its deposits, short-term and long-term debt and secured financing transactions, see ﬁCapital 
Resources and LiquidityŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below.In billions of dollarsDecember 31,  
2012September 30, 
2012˙
˜˚˛˛EOP 4Q12 vs. 3Q12 
Increase (decrease)% Changeƒ⁄‡˙˙
˝˙Assets$139$204

$(65)(32)%


261278(17)(6)
“
32131562
˛˚
312295176



630633(3)Š
˜
202206˜˛˜(4)(2)
Total assets
$1,865$1,931

$(66)(3)%

‚˝Liabilities
$931$945

$(14)(1)%
†˝

211224(13)(6)

“
116130(14)(11)
524936
239272(33)(12)

12512232
Total liabilities
$1,674$1,742

$(68)(4)%

Total equity
191189˛†˚21
˛˛
Total liabilities and equity
$1,865$1,931

$(66)(3)%

‚˝Cash and deposits with banks is composed of both Cash and due from banks and Deposits with banks. Cash and due from banks includes 
(i) cash on hand at Citi™s domestic and overseas offices, and (ii) non-
interest-bearing balances due from banks, including non-interest-bearing 
demand deposit accounts with correspondent banks, central banks (such 
as the Federal Reserve Bank), and other banks or depository institutions for 
normal operating purposes. Deposits with banks includes interest-bearing 
balances, demand deposits and time deposits held in or due from banks 
(including correspondent banks, central banks and other banks or depository 
institutions) maintained for, among other things, normal operating and 
regulatory reserve requirement purposes.During 2012, cash and deposits with banks decreased $45 billion, or 24%, driven by a $53 billion, or 34%, decrease in deposits with banks offset by an $8 billion, or 27%, increase in cash and due from banks. The purposeful 
reduction in cash and deposits with banks was in keeping with Citi™s 

continued strategy to deleverage the balance sheet and deploy excess cash 
into investments. The overall decline resulted from cash used to repay long-
term debt maturities (net of modest issuances) and to reduce other long-term 
debt and short-term borrowings (including the redemption of trust preferred securities and debt repurchases), the funding of asset growth in the Citicorp 
businesses (including continued lending to both Consumer and Corporate 
clients), as well as the reinvestment of cash into higher yielding available-
for-sale (AFS) securities. These uses of cash were partially offset by the cash 

generated by the $65 billion increase in customer deposits over the course of 
2012, as well as cash generated from asset sales, primarily in Citi Holdings 
(including the $1.89 billion paid to Citi by Morgan Stanley for the 14% 
interest in MSSB, as described under ﬁCiti HoldingsŠBrokerage and Asset 
Managementﬂ and in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), 
and from Citi™s operations.
The $65 billion, or 32%, decline in cash and deposits with banks during the fourth quarter of 2012 was similarly driven by cash used to repay short-
term borrowings and long-term debt obligations and the redeployment 
of excess cash into investments. The reduction during the fourth quarter 
also reflected a net decline in client deposits that was expected during the 
quarter and reflected the run-off of episodic deposits that came in at the end 
of the third quarter and the outflows of deposits related to the Transaction 

Account Guarantee (TAG) program, partially offset by deposit growth in the 

normal course of business. These deposit changes are discussed further under 
ﬁCapital Resources and LiquidityŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below.
38Federal funds sold consist of unsecured advances to third parties of excess 
balances in reserve accounts held at the Federal Reserve Banks. During 2011 
and 2012, Citi™s federal funds sold were not significant. Reverse repos and securities borrowing transactions decreased by $15 billion, or 5%, during 2012, and declined $17 billion, or 6%, compared to 

the third quarter of 2012. The majority of this decrease was due to changes in 
the mix of assets within certain Securities and Banking businesses between 
reverse repos and trading account assets.For further information regarding these balance sheet categories, see Notes 1 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Trading account assets includes debt and marketable equity securities, 
derivatives in a net receivable position, residual interests in securitizations 
and physical commodities inventory. In addition, certain assets that 
Citigroup has elected to carry at fair value, such as certain loans and 
purchase guarantees, are also included in Trading account assets.During 2012, trading account assets increased $29 billion, or 10%, primarily due to increases in equity securities ($24 billion, or 72%), foreign 
government securities ($10 billion, or 12%), and mortgage-backed securities 
($4 billion, or 13%), partially offset by an $8 billion, or 12%, decrease in 
derivative assets. A significant portion of the increase in Citi™s trading account 

assets (approximately half of which occurred in the first quarter of 2012, 
with the remainder of the growth occurring steadily during the rest of 2012) 
was the reversal of reductions in trading positions during the second half of 
2011 as a result of the economic uncertainty that largely began in the third 
quarter of 2011 and continued into the fourth quarter. During 2011, Citi 

reduced its rates trading in the G10, particularly in Europe, given the market 
environment in the region, and credit trading and securitized markets also 
declined due to reduced client volume and less market liquidity. In 2012, 

the increases in trading assets and the assets classes noted above were the 
result of a more favorable market environment and more robust trading 
activities, as well as a change in the asset mix of positions held in certain 
equities businesses.Average trading account assets were $251 billion in 2012, compared to 
$270 billion in 2011. The decrease versus the prior year reflected the higher 
levels of trading assets (excluding derivative assets) during the first half of 
2011, prior to the de-risking and market-related reductions noted above.For further information on Citi™s trading account assets, see Notes 1 and 
14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Investments consist of debt and equity securities that are available-for-sale, 
debt securities that are held-to-maturity, non-marketable equity securities 
that are carried at fair value, and non-marketable equity securities carried 
at cost. Debt securities include bonds, notes and redeemable preferred 
stock, as well as certain mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and 
other structured notes. Marketable and non-marketable equity securities 
carried at fair value include common and nonredeemable preferred stock. 
Nonmarketable equity securities carried at cost primarily include equity 
shares issued by the Federal Reserve Bank and the Federal Home Loan Banks 
that Citigroup is required to hold.During 2012, investments increased by $19 billion, or 6%, primarily due to a $23 billion, or 9%, increase in AFS, predominantly foreign government 
and U.S. Treasury securities, partially offset by a $1 billion decrease in held-

to-maturity securities. The majority of this increase occurred during the 
fourth quarter of 2012, where investments increased $17 billion, or 6%, in 
total. The increase in AFS was part of the continued balance sheet strategy to 
redeploy excess cash into higher-yielding investments.
As noted above, the increase in AFS included growth in foreign government securities (as the increase in deposits in many countries resulted 
in higher liquid resources and drove the investment in foreign government 
AFS, primarily in Asia and Latin America) and U.S. Treasury securities.

This growth and reallocation was supplemented by smaller increases in 
mortgage-backed securities (both U.S. government agency MBS and non-U.S. 
residential MBS), municipal securities and other asset-backed securities, 
partially offset by a reduction in U.S. federal agency securities.For further information regarding investments, see Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.39Loans represent the largest asset category of Citi™s balance sheet. Citi™s total loans (as discussed throughout this section, are presented net of unearned 
income) were $655 billion at December 31, 2012, compared to $647 billion 
at December 31, 2011. Excluding the impact of FX translation, loans 
increased 1% year-over-year. At year-end 2012, Consumer and Corporate 
loans represented 62% and 38%, respectively, of Citi™s total loans.In Citicorp, loans were up 7% to $540 billion at year end 2012, as compared to $507 billion at the end of 2011. Citicorp Corporate loans 
increased 11% year-over-year, and Citicorp Consumer loans were up 

3% year-over-year. 
Corporate loan growth was driven by Transaction Services
 (25% growth), particularly from increased trade finance lending in most regions, as well as 
growth in the Securities and Banking Corporate loan book (6% growth), 
with increased borrowing generally across most segments and regions. 

Growth in Corporate lending included increases in Private Bank and certain 
middle-market client segments overseas, with other Corporate lending 
segments down slightly as compared to year-end 2011. During 2012, Citi 

continued to optimize the Corporate lending portfolio, including selling 
certain loans that did not fit its target market profile.Consumer loan growth was driven by Global Consumer Banking, as loans increased 3% year-over-year, led by 
Latin America and Asia. North 
America Consumer loans decreased 1%, driven by declines in card loans, as 
the cards market reflected overall consumer deleveraging as well as other 
regulatory changes. Retail lending in North America, however, increased 

10% year-over-year, as a result of higher real estate lending as well as growth 

in the commercial segment. In contrast, Citi Holdings loans declined 18% year-over-year, due to the 
continued run-off and asset sales in the portfolios.During 2012, average loans of $649 billion yielded an average rate of 7.5%, compared to $644 billion and 7.8%, respectively, in the prior year. 
For further information on Citi™s loan portfolios, see generally ﬁManaging 
Global RiskŠCredit Riskﬂ below and Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Other assets consists of Brokerage receivables, Goodwill, Intangibles and 

Mortgage servicing rights in addition to Other assets (including, among other 

items, loans held-for-sale, deferred tax assets, equity-method investments, 

interest and fees receivable, premises and equipment, certain end-user 

derivatives in a net receivable position, repossessed assets and other receivables).During 2012, other assets decreased $10 billion, or 5%, primarily due to 
a $5 billion decrease in brokerage receivables, a $3 billion decrease in other 

assets, a $1 billion decrease in mortgage servicing rights (see ﬁManaging Global 

RiskŠCredit RiskŠNorth America Consumer Mortgage LendingŠMortgage 

Servicing Rightsﬂ below), and a $1 billion decrease in intangible assets.For further information on brokerage receivables, see Note 13 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. For further information regarding goodwill 

and intangible assets, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Deposits represent customer funds that are payable on demand or upon 
maturity. For a discussion of Citi™s deposits, see ﬁCapital Resources and 
LiquidityŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below.
Federal funds purchased consist of unsecured advances of excess balances in 
reserve accounts held at the Federal Reserve Banks from third parties. During 
2011 and 2012, Citi™s federal funds purchased were not significant. For further information on Citi™s secured financing transactions, 
including repos and securities lending transactions, see ﬁCapital Resources 
and LiquidityŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below. See also Notes 1 and 12 to 

the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these 
balance sheet categories.Trading account liabilities includes securities sold, not yet purchased 
(short positions), and derivatives in a net payable position, as well as certain 
liabilities that Citigroup has elected to carry at fair value.During 2012, trading account liabilities decreased by $10 billion, or 8%, primarily due to a $5 billion, or 8%, decrease in derivative liabilities, 
and a reduction in short equity positions. In 2012, average trading account 
liabilities were $74 billion, compared to $86 billion in 2011, primarily due to 
lower average volumes of short equity positions.For further information on Citi™s trading account liabilities, see Notes 1 
and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Debt is composed of both short-term and long-term borrowings. Short-term 
borrowings include commercial paper and borrowings from unaffiliated 
banks and other market participants. Long-term borrowings include senior 
notes, subordinated notes, trust preferred securities and securitizations. For 
further information on Citi™s long-term and short-term debt borrowings 
during 2012, see ﬁCapital Resources and LiquidityŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ 
below and Notes 1 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Other liabilities consists of Brokerage payables and Other liabilities 
(including, among other items, accrued expenses and other payables, 
deferred tax liabilities, certain end-user derivatives in a net payable position, 
and reserves for legal claims, taxes, restructuring, unfunded lending 
commitments, and other matters).During 2012, other liabilities decreased $1 billion, or 1%. For further information regarding Brokerage payables, see Note 13 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.40In millions of dollarsGlobal Consumer BankingInstitutional Clients GroupCorporate/Other, 
Discontinued Operations and Consolidating Eliminations (2)Subtotal CiticorpCiti HoldingsCitigroupParent Company-
Issued Long-Term 
Debt and Stockholders™ Equity  (3)Total Citigroup 
ConsolidatedAssets$19,474$71,152$46,634$137,260$1,327$Š$138,587

3,243256,864
Š260,1071,204
Š261,311
“
12,716300,360
244313,3207,609
Š320,929
29,914112,928151,822294,66417,662
Š312,326


283,365241,819
Š525,184104,825
Š630,009
53,18075,54349,154177,87723,621
Š201,498
Total assets
$401,892$1,058,666$247,854$1,708,412$156,248$Š$1,864,660
Liabilities and equity“
$336,942$523,083$2,579$862,604$67,956$Š$930,560

6,835204,397
Š211,2324
Š211,236
“
167113,530
535114,2321,317
Š115,549
14046,535
4,97451,649378
Š52,027
2,68843,515
8,91755,1207,790176,553239,463

18,75279,38417,693115,8298,999
Š124,828

36,36848,222211,208295,79869,804(365,602)
ŠTotal liabilities
$401,892$1,058,666$245,906$1,706,464$156,248$(189,049)$1,673,663
Total equity
ŠŠ1,9481,948Š189,049190,997
Total liabilities and equity
$401,892$1,058,666$247,854$1,708,412$156,248$Š$1,864,660
˙
˙
˙Œ˙ﬂŁŁ‡

˙

Corporate/Other
˙


41Capital is used principally to support assets in Citi™s businesses and to absorb 
credit, market and operational losses. Citi primarily generates capital 
through earnings from its operating businesses. Citi may augment its capital 
through issuances of common stock, perpetual preferred stock and equity 
issued through awards under employee benefit plans, among other issuances. 
During the fourth quarter of 2012, Citi issued approximately $2.25 billion 
of noncumulative perpetual preferred stock (see ﬁFunding and LiquidityŠ
Long-Term Debtﬂ below).
Citi has also previously augmented its regulatory capital through the issuance of subordinated debt underlying trust preferred securities, although 
the treatment of such instruments as regulatory capital will be phased out 
under the U.S. Basel III rules in accordance with the timeframe specified by 
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 

(Dodd-Frank Act) (see ﬁRegulatory Capital Standardsﬂ below). Accordingly, 

Citi has begun to redeem certain of its trust preferred securities (see ﬁFunding 
and LiquidityŠLong-Term Debtﬂ below) in contemplation of such future 

phase out.Further, changes in regulatory and accounting standards as well as the 
impact of future events on Citi™s business results, such as corporate and asset 

dispositions, may also affect Citi™s capital levels. 
Citigroup™s capital management framework is designed to ensure that 
Citigroup and its principal subsidiaries maintain sufficient capital consistent 
with each entity™s respective risk profile and all applicable regulatory 

standards and guidelines. Citi assesses its capital adequacy against a series 
of internal quantitative capital goals, designed to evaluate the Company™s 

capital levels in expected and stressed economic environments. Underlying 
these internal quantitative capital goals are strategic capital considerations, 
centered on preserving and building financial strength. Senior management, 
with oversight from the Board of Directors, is responsible for the capital 
assessment and planning process, which is integrated into Citi™s capital plan, 

as part of the Federal Reserve Board™s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and 

Review (CCAR) process. Implementation of the capital plan is carried out 
mainly through Citigroup™s Asset and Liability Committee, with oversight 

from the Risk Management and Finance Committee of Citigroup™s Board of 

Directors. Asset and liability committees are also established globally and for 
each significant legal entity, region, country and/or major line of business.
Citigroup is subject to the risk-based capital guidelines (currently Basel I) 
issued by the Federal Reserve Board. Historically, capital adequacy has been 
measured, in part, based on two risk-based capital ratios, the Tier 1 Capital 
and Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital) ratios. Tier 1 Capital 
consists of the sum of ﬁcore capital elements,ﬂ such as qualifying common 
stockholders™ equity, as adjusted, qualifying perpetual preferred stock, 
qualifying noncontrolling interests, and qualifying trust preferred securities, 
principally reduced by goodwill, other disallowed intangible assets, and disallowed deferred tax assets. Total Capital also includes ﬁsupplementaryﬂ 
Tier 2 Capital elements, such as qualifying subordinated debt and a limited 
portion of the allowance for credit losses. Both measures of capital adequacy 
are stated as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. In 2009, the U.S. banking regulators developed a new supervisory measure of capital termed ﬁTier 1 Common,ﬂ which is defined as Tier 1 Capital less 

non-common elements, including qualifying perpetual preferred stock, 
qualifying noncontrolling interests, and qualifying trust preferred securities. Citigroup™s risk-weighted assets, as currently computed under Basel I, 
are principally derived from application of the risk-based capital guidelines 
related to the measurement of credit risk. Pursuant to these guidelines, 
on-balance-sheet assets and the credit equivalent amount of certain off-
balance-sheet exposures (such as financial guarantees, unfunded lending 
commitments, letters of credit and derivatives) are assigned to one of 
several prescribed risk-weight categories based upon the perceived credit risk 
associated with the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor, the nature of the 

collateral, or external credit ratings. Risk-weighted assets also incorporate 
a measure for market risk on covered trading account positions and all 
foreign exchange and commodity positions whether or not carried in the 
trading account. Excluded from risk-weighted assets are any assets, such as 
goodwill and deferred tax assets, to the extent required to be deducted from 
regulatory capital.Citigroup is also subject to a Leverage ratio requirement, a non-risk-based measure of capital adequacy, which is defined as Tier 1 Capital as a 

percentage of quarterly adjusted average total assets.To be ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ under current federal bank regulatory agency 
definitions, a bank holding company must have a Tier 1 Capital ratio of at 

least 6%, a Total Capital ratio of at least 10%, and not be subject to a Federal 

Reserve Board directive to maintain higher capital levels. In addition, the 
Federal Reserve Board expects bank holding companies to maintain a 
minimum Leverage ratio of 3% or 4%, depending on factors specified in its 
regulations. The following table sets forth Citigroup™s regulatory capital ratios 

as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011:At year end2012˜˚˛˛“
12.67%“
14.06““
17.26
7.48As indicated in the table above, Citigroup was ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ under the current federal bank regulatory agency definitions as of December 31, 2012 
and December 31, 2011.42In millions of dollars at year end 
2012˜˚˛˛Tier 1 Common Capital

$186,487

Regulatory Capital Adjustments and Deductions:


597˙
(2,293)
(5,270)

18
40,148
25,686
4,004(502)Total Tier 1 Common Capital
$123,095

Tier 1 Capital

$2,562

9,983892Total Tier 1 Capital
$136,532

Tier 2 Capital

$12,330


18,689
135Total Tier 2 Capital
$31,154

Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital)
$167,686

Risk-Weighted Assets
In millions of dollars at year end

$971,253


$1,110,859
˙“
€˘“
“
˙
˙

˙
˙
˙
CompensationŠRetirement BenefitsŠDefined Benefits Plans
Œ˙™„
˙
“
˙
˙˘Œ˙€˘
¤“

˘


˙
˙˙
˙
“
˙
˙
˙…


˙

˙
43In June 2012, the U.S. banking agencies released final (revised) market risk capital rules (Basel II.5), which became effective on January 1, 2013. At 
the same time, the U.S. banking agencies also released proposed Basel III 
rules, although the timing of the finalization and effective date(s) of these 
rules is subject to uncertainty. Collectively these rules would establish an 
integrated framework of standards applicable to virtually all U.S. banking 
organizations, including Citi and Citibank, N.A., and upon implementation 
would comprehensively revise and replace existing regulatory capital 
requirements. For additional information on the proposed U.S. Basel III 
and final Basel II.5 rules see ﬁRegulatory Capital Standardsﬂ and ﬁRisk 
FactorsŠRegulatory Risksﬂ below.Citi™s estimated Tier 1 Common ratio as of December 31, 2012, assuming 
application of the Basel II.5 rules, was 11.08%, compared to 12.67% under 
Basel I.11 This decline reflects the significant increase in risk-weighted assets under the Basel II.5 rules relative to those under the current Basel I market 
risk capital rules. Furthermore, Citi continues to incorporate mandated 
enhancements and refinements to its Basel II.5 market risk models for 
which conditional approval has been received from the Federal Reserve 
Board and OCC. Citi™s Basel II.5 risk-weighted assets would be substantially 

higher absent the successful incorporation of these required enhancements 
and refinements. At December 31, 2012, Citi™s estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio was 
8.7%, compared to an estimated 8.6% at September 30, 2012 (each based 
on total risk-weighted assets calculated under the proposed U.S. Basel III 
ﬁadvanced approachesﬂ and including Basel II.5).12 This slight increase quarter-over-quarter was primarily due to lower risk-weighted assets, partially 

offset by a decline in Tier 1 Common Capital attributable largely to changes 

in OCI as well as certain other components. Citi™s estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio is based on its 
understanding, expectations and interpretation of the proposed U.S. Basel III 
requirements, anticipated compliance with all necessary enhancements to 
model calibration and other refinements, as well as further regulatory clarity 
and implementation guidance in the U.S.˛˛˙

Œ˙
Œ˙€˘
˛˜˙
“




Œ˙€˘
44In millions of dollars December 31, 
2012September 30, 
2012Tier 1 Common Capital
 (1)
$186,487$186,465

171161Regulatory Capital Adjustments and Deductions:
˙
(2,293)(2,503)
587998
27,00427,248
5,7165,983
732752Œ…
27,20023,500
˙22,31623,749Total Tier 1 Common Capital
$105,396$106,899
Risk-Weighted Assets
 (4)$1,206,153$1,236,619
˙
˙

˙

˙
˙…
As set forth in the table below, during 2012, Citigroup™s common stockholders™ equity increased by $9 billion to $186.5 billion, which 
represented 10% of Citi™s total assets as of December 31, 2012.In billions of dollarsCommon stockholders™ equity, December 31, 2011
$177.5

7.50.6˙
0.9Common stockholders™ equity, December 31, 2012
$186.5
˙

˙Œ˙˘




45Tangible common equity (TCE), as defined by Citigroup, represents common 
equity less goodwill, other intangible assets (other than mortgage servicing 
rights (MSRs)), and related net deferred tax assets. Other companies may 
calculate TCE in a different manner. Citi™s TCE was $155.1 billion at 
December 31, 2012 and $145.4 billion at December 31, 2011. The TCE ratio 
(TCE divided by Basel I risk-weighted assets) was 16.0% at December 31, 
2012 and 14.9% at December 31, 2011.13A reconciliation of Citigroup™s total stockholders™ equity to TCE, and book 
value per share to tangible book value per share, as of December 31, 2012 
and December 31, 2011, follows:In millions of dollars or shares at year end, 

except ratios and per share data
2012˜˚˛˛Total Citigroup stockholders™ equity
$189,049

2,562Common equity$186,487

25,673
5,697



32‚

32Tangible common equity (TCE)
$155,053

Tangible assets
$1,864,660

25,673
5,697


32‚

309Tangible assets (TA)
$1,832,949

Risk-weighted assets (RWA)
$971,253

TCE/TA ratio
8.46%TCE/RWA ratio
15.96%Common shares outstanding (CSO)3,028.9Book value per share (common equity/CSO)$61.57

Tangible book value per share (TCE/CSO)$51.19


Citigroup™s subsidiary U.S. depository institutions are also subject to risk-
based capital guidelines issued by their respective primary federal bank 
regulatory agencies, which are similar to the guidelines of the Federal 
Reserve Board. The following table sets forth the capital tiers and capital ratios under current regulatory guidelines for Citibank, N.A., Citi™s primary subsidiary U.S. 

depository institution, as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011:In billions of dollars, except ratios
2012˜˚˛˛“
$116.6

“
117.4“
“
135.5“
14.12%
“
14.21“
16.41
8.97˙


46The following table presents the estimated sensitivity of Citigroup™s and 
Citibank, N.A.™s capital ratios to changes of $100 million in Tier 1 Common 
Capital, Tier 1 Capital or Total Capital (numerator), or changes of $1 billion 
in risk-weighted assets or adjusted average total assets (denominator), 
as of December 31, 2012. This information is provided for the purpose 
of analyzing the impact that a change in Citigroup™s or Citibank, N.A.™s 
financial position or results of operations could have on these ratios. These 
sensitivities only consider a single change to either a component of capital, 
risk-weighted assets or adjusted average total assets. Accordingly, an event 
that affects more than one factor may have a larger basis point impact than 
is reflected in this table.Tier 1 Common ratio
Tier 1 Capital ratio
 Total Capital ratio
Leverage ratioImpact of $100 million change in  Tier 1 Common Capital
Impact of $1 billion change in 
risk-weighted assetsImpact of $100 million change in Tier 1 Capital
Impact of $1 billion change in risk-weighted assetsImpact of $100 million change in Total Capital
Impact of $1 billion change in risk-weighted assetsImpact of $100 million change in Tier 1 Capital
Impact of $1 billion change in adjusted average total assets
1.0 bps1.3 bps1.0 bps1.4 bps1.0 bps1.8 bps0.5 bps0.4 bps

1.2 bps1.7 bps1.2 bps1.7 bps1.2 bps2.0 bps0.8 bps0.7 bps
At December 31, 2012, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., a U.S. broker-dealer 

registered with the SEC that is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup, 

had net capital, computed in accordance with the SEC™s net capital rule, 

of $6.2 billion, which exceeded the minimum requirement by $5.7 billion.In addition, certain of Citi™s other broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject 
to regulation in the countries in which they do business, including 
requirements to maintain specified levels of net capital or its equivalent. 
Citigroup™s other broker-dealer subsidiaries were in compliance with their 

capital requirements at December 31, 2012. See Note 20 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.47The future regulatory capital standards applicable to Citi include Basel II, Basel II.5 and Basel III, as well as the current Basel I credit risk capital rules, 
until superseded. Basel IIIn November 2007, the U.S. banking agencies adopted Basel II, a new set of 
risk-based capital standards for large, internationally active U.S. banking 
organizations, including Citi. These standards require Citi to comply with the 
most advanced Basel II approaches for calculating risk-weighted assets for 
credit and operational risks. More specifically, credit risk under Basel II is generally measured using 
an advanced internal ratings-based models approach which is applicable 
to wholesale and retail exposures, and under certain circumstances also to 
securitization and equity exposures. For wholesale and retail exposures, a 
U.S. banking organization is required to input risk parameters generated 
by its internal risk models into specified required formulas to determine 
risk-weighted assets. Basel II provides several approaches, subject to various 
conditions and qualifying criteria, to measure risk-weighted assets for 
securitization exposures. For equity exposures, a U.S. banking organization 
may use a simple risk weight approach or, if it qualifies to do so, an internal 

models approach to measure risk-weighted assets for exposures other 
than exposures to investments funds, for which a look through approach 
must be used.Basel II sets forth advanced measurement approaches to be employed by a U.S. banking organization in the measurement of its operational risk, 
which is defined by Citi as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed 
internal processes, systems or human factors, or from external events. The 
advanced measurement approaches do not require a banking organization 
to use a specific methodology in its operational risk assessment and rely on a 
banking organization™s internal estimates of its operational risks to generate 

an operational risk capital requirement.The U.S. Basel II implementation timetable originally consisted of a parallel calculation period under the current regulatory capital rules 
(Basel I), followed by a three-year transitional ﬁfloorﬂ period, during which 
Basel II risk-based capital requirements could not fall below certain floors 
based on application of the Basel I rules. Citi began parallel Basel I and 
Basel II reporting to the U.S. banking agencies on April 1, 2010, although, 
as required under U.S. banking regulations, reported only its Basel I capital 
ratios for purposes of assessing compliance with minimum Tier 1 Capital and 

Total Capital ratio requirements.
In June 2011, the U.S. banking agencies adopted final regulations to implement the ﬁcapital floorﬂ provision of the so-called ﬁCollins 
Amendmentﬂ of the Dodd-Frank Act. These regulations eliminated the 
three-year transitional floor period in favor of a permanent floor based 
on the generally applicable risk-based capital rules (currently Basel I). 
Pursuant to these regulations, a banking organization that has formally 
implemented Basel II must calculate its risk-based capital requirements 
under both Basel I and Basel II, compare the two results, and then report the 
lower of the resulting capital ratios for purposes of determining compliance 
with its minimum Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratio requirements. As of 

December 31, 2012, neither Citi nor any other U.S. banking organization 
had received approval from the U.S. banking agencies to formally implement 
Basel II. Citi expects, however, that it will be required to formally implement 

Basel II during 2013 and will begin reporting the lower of its Basel I and 
Basel II ratios.Basel II.5Basel II.5 substantially revised the market risk capital framework, and 
implements a more comprehensive and risk sensitive methodology for 
calculating market risk capital requirements for covered trading positions. 
Further, the U.S. version of the Basel II.5 rules also implements the Dodd-
Frank Act requirement that all federal agencies remove references to, and 
reliance on, credit ratings in their regulations, and replace these references 
with alternative standards for evaluating creditworthiness. As a result, the 
U.S. banking agencies provided alternative methodologies to external credit 
ratings to be used in assessing capital requirements on certain debt and 
securitization positions subject to the Basel II.5 rules.Basel IIIThe U.S. Basel III rules consist of three notices of proposed rulemaking 
(NPRs): the ﬁBasel III NPR,ﬂ the ﬁStandardized Approach NPRﬂ and 
the ﬁAdvanced Approaches NPR.ﬂ With the broad exceptions of the new 
ﬁStandardized Approachﬂ to be employed by substantially all U.S. banking 
organizations in deriving credit risk-weighted assets and the required 
alternatives to the use of external credit ratings in arriving at applicable 
risk weights for certain exposures as referenced above, the NPRs are largely 
consistent with the Basel Committee™s Basel III rules. In November 2012, the 
U.S. banking agencies announced that none of the proposed rules would be 
finalized and effective January 1, 2013 as was, in part, initially suggested.48Basel III NPRThe Basel III NPR, as with the Basel Committee Basel III rules, is intended to 
raise the quantity and quality of regulatory capital by formally introducing 
not only Tier 1 Common Capital and mandating that it be the predominant 
form of regulatory capital, but by also narrowing the definition of qualifying 
capital elements at all three regulatory capital tiers as well as imposing 
broader and more constraining regulatory adjustments and deductions.The Basel III NPR would modify the regulations implementing the capital floor provision of the Collins Amendment of the Dodd-Frank 
Act that were adopted in June 2011 (as discussed above). This provision 
would require ﬁAdvanced Approachesﬂ banking organizations (generally 
those with consolidated total assets of at least $250 billion or consolidated 
total on-balance sheet foreign exposures of at least $10 billion), which 
includes Citi and Citibank, N.A., to calculate each of the three risk-based 
capital ratios (Tier 1 Common, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital) under 

both the proposed ﬁStandardized Approachﬂ and the proposed ﬁAdvanced 
Approachesﬂ and report the lower of each of the resulting capital ratios. The 
principal differences between these two approaches are in the composition 
and calculation of total risk-weighted assets, as well as in the definition of 
Total Capital. Compliance with the Basel III NPR stated minimum Tier 1 

Common, Tier 1 Capital, and Total Capital ratio requirements of 4.5%, 6%, 

and 8%, respectively, would be assessed based upon each of the reported 

ratios. The newly established Tier 1 Common and increased Tier 1 Capital 

stated minimum ratio requirements have been proposed to be phased in 
over a three-year period. Under the Basel III NPR, consistent with the Basel 
Committee Basel III rules, there would be no change in the stated minimum 
Total Capital ratio requirement.
Additionally, the Basel III NPR establishes a 2.5% Capital Conservation 
Buffer applicable to substantially all U.S. banking organizations and, for 
Advanced Approaches banking organizations, a potential Countercyclical 
Capital Buffer of up to 2.5%. The Countercyclical Capital Buffer would be 
invoked upon a determination by the U.S. banking agencies that the market 
is experiencing excessive aggregate credit growth, and would be an extension 
of the Capital Conservation Buffer (i.e., an aggregate combined buffer of 
potentially between 2.5% and 5%). Citi would be subject to both the Capital 
Conservation Buffer and, if invoked, the Countercyclical Capital Buffer. 

Consistent with the Basel Committee Basel III rules, both of these buffers 
would be required to be comprised entirely of Tier 1 Common Capital.
The calculation of the Capital Conservation Buffer for Advanced Approaches banking organizations, including Citi, would be based on a 
comparison of each of the three risk-based capital ratios as calculated under 
the Advanced Approaches and the stated minimum required ratios for each 
(i.e., 4.5% Tier 1 Common and 6% Tier 1 Capital, both as fully phased-in, 

and 8% Total Capital), with the reportable Capital Conservation Buffer being 

the smallest of the three differences. If a banking organization failed to 
comply with the proposed buffers, it would be subject to increasingly onerous 
restrictions (depending upon the extent of the shortfall) regarding capital 
distributions and discretionary executive bonus payments. The buffers are 
proposed to be phased in from January 1, 2016 through January 1, 2019. Unlike the Basel Committee™s final rules for global systemically important 
banks (G-SIBs), the Basel III NPR does not include measures for G-SIBs, 
such as those addressing the methodology for assessing global systemic 
importance, the imposition of additional Tier 1 Common capital surcharges, 

and the phase-in period regarding these requirements. The Federal Reserve 
Board is required by the Dodd-Frank Act to issue rules establishing a 
quantitative risk-based capital surcharge for financial institutions deemed to 
be systemically important and posing risk to market-wide financial stability, 

such as Citi, and the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it intends for 
these rules to be consistent with the Basel Committee™s final G-SIB rules. 

Although these rules have not yet been proposed, Citi anticipates that it will 
likely be subject to a 2.5% initial additional capital surcharge.The Basel III NPR, consistent with the Basel Committee™s Basel III rules, 
provides that certain capital instruments, such as trust preferred securities, 
would no longer qualify as non-common components of Tier
 1 Capital. Furthermore, the Collins Amendment of the Dodd-Frank Act generally 
requires a phase-out of these securities over a three-year period beginning 
January 1, 2013 for bank holding companies, such as Citi, that had 
$15 billion or more in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2009. 
Accordingly, the U.S. banking agencies have proposed that trust preferred securities and other non-qualifying Tier 1 Capital instruments, as well as 

non-qualifying Tier 2 Capital instruments, be phased out by these bank 

holding companies, including Citi, at a 25% per year incremental phase-
out beginning on January 1, 2013 (i.e., 75% of these capital instruments 
would be includable in Tier 1 Capital on January 1, 2013, 50% on January 1, 

2014, and 25% on January 1, 2015), with a full phase-out of these capital 
instruments by January 1, 2016. However, the timing of the phase-out of 

trust preferred securities and other non-qualifying Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital 

instruments is currently uncertain, given the delay in finalization and 
implementation of the U.S. Basel III rules. For additional information on 
Citi™s outstanding trust preferred securities, see Note 19 to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements. See also ﬁFunding and Liquidityﬂ below.
Under the Basel III NPR, Advanced Approaches banking organizations would also be required to calculate two leverage ratios, a ﬁTier 1ﬂ Leverage 

ratio and a ﬁSupplementaryﬂ Leverage ratio. The Tier 1 Leverage ratio would 

be a modified version of the current U.S. leverage ratio and would reflect 
the more restrictive proposed Basel III definition of Tier 1 Capital in the 

numerator, but with the same current denominator consisting of average 

total on-balance sheet assets less amounts deducted from Tier 1 Capital. 

Citi, as with substantially all U.S. banking organizations, would be required 
to maintain a minimum Tier 1 Leverage ratio of 4%. The Supplementary 

Leverage ratio would significantly differ from the Tier 1 Leverage ratio 

regarding the inclusion of certain off-balance sheet exposures within the 
denominator of the ratio. Advanced Approaches banking organizations, such 
as Citi, would be required to maintain a minimum Supplementary Leverage 
ratio of 3%, commencing on January 1, 2018, although it was proposed 
that reporting commence on January 1, 2015. The Basel Committee™s 

Basel III rules only require that banking organizations calculate a similar 
Supplementary Leverage ratio.49In addition, under the Basel III NPR, the U.S. banking agencies are proposing to revise the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) regulations in certain respects. The PCA requirements direct the U.S. banking agencies to 
enforce increasingly strict limitations on the activities of insured depository 
institutions that fail to meet certain regulatory capital thresholds. The 
PCA framework contains five categories of capital adequacy as measured 
by risk-based capital and leverage ratios: ﬁwell capitalized,ﬂ ﬁadequately 
capitalized,ﬂ ﬁundercapitalized,ﬂ ﬁsignificantly undercapitalized,ﬂ and 
ﬁcritically undercapitalized.ﬂThe U.S. banking agencies are proposing to revise the PCA regulations to accommodate a new minimum Tier 1 Common ratio requirement 

for substantially all categories of capital adequacy (other than critically 
undercapitalized), increase the minimum Tier 1 Capital ratio requirement 

at each category, and introduce for Advanced Approaches insured depository 

institutions the Supplementary Leverage ratio as a metric, but only for the 
ﬁadequately capitalizedﬂ and ﬁundercapitalizedﬂ categories. These revisions 
have been proposed to be effective on January 1, 2015, with the exception 
of the Supplementary Leverage ratio for Advanced Approaches insured 
depository institutions for which January 1, 2018 was proposed as the effective 

date. Accordingly, as proposed, beginning January 1, 2015, an insured 

depository institution, such as Citibank, N.A., would need minimum Tier 1 

Common, Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital, and Tier 1 Leverage ratios of 6.5% (a 

new requirement), 8% (a 2% increase over the current requirement), 10%, 
and 5%, respectively, to be considered ﬁwell capitalized.ﬂ
Standardized Approach NPR
The Standardized Approach NPR would be applicable to substantially all 

U.S. banking organizations, including Citi and Citibank, N.A., and when 

effective would replace the existing Basel I rules governing the calculation 

of risk-weighted assets for credit risk. As proposed, this approach would 

incorporate heightened risk sensitivity for calculating risk-weighted assets for 

certain on-balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet exposures, including 

those to foreign sovereign governments and banks, residential mortgages, 

corporate and securitization exposures, and counterparty credit risk on 

derivative contracts, as compared to Basel I. Total risk-weighted assets under 

the Standardized Approach would exclude risk-weighted assets arising from 

operational risk, require more limited approaches in measuring risk-weighted 

assets for securitization exposures under Basel II.5, and apply the standardized 

risk-weights to arrive at credit risk-weighted assets. As required under the 

Dodd-Frank Act, the Standardized Approach proposes to rely on alternatives 

to external credit ratings in the treatment of certain exposures. The proposed 

effective date for implementation of the Standardized Approach is January 1, 

2015, with an option for U.S. banking organizations to early adopt.Advanced Approaches NPRThe Advanced Approaches NPR incorporates published revisions to the Basel 
Committee™s Advanced Approaches calculation of risk-weighted assets as 
proposed amendments to the U.S. Basel II capital guidelines. Total risk-
weighted assets under the Advanced Approaches would include not only 
market risk equivalent risk-weighted assets as determined under Basel II.5, 
but also the results of applying the Advanced Approaches in calculating credit 
and operational risk-weighted assets. Primary among the proposed Basel II 
modifications are those related to the treatment of counterparty credit risk, 
as well as substantial revisions to the securitization exposure framework. As 
required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Advanced Approaches NPR also proposes 
to remove references to, and reliance on, external credit ratings for various 
types of exposures.50Citi™s funding and liquidity objectives generally are to maintain liquidity to fund its existing asset base as well as grow its core businesses in Citicorp, 
while at the same time maintain sufficient excess liquidity, structured 
appropriately, so that it can operate under a wide variety of market 
conditions, including market disruptions for both short- and long-term 
periods. Citigroup™s primary liquidity objectives are established by entity, and 
in aggregate, across three major categories:the non-bank, which is largely composed of the parent holding company (Citigroup) and Citi™s broker-dealer subsidiaries (collectively referred to in 
this section as ﬁnon-bankﬂ);Citi™s significant Citibank entities, which consist of Citibank, N.A. units 
domiciled in the U.S., Western Europe, Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore 
(collectively referred to in this section as ﬁsignificant Citibank entitiesﬂ); 
andother Citibank and Banamex entities.At an aggregate level, Citigroup™s goal is to ensure that there is sufficient 
funding in amount and tenor to ensure that aggregate liquidity resources are 
available for these entities. The liquidity framework requires that entities be 
self-sufficient or net providers of liquidity, including in conditions established 

under their designated stress tests.Citi™s primary sources of funding include (i) deposits via Citi™s bank subsidiaries, which are Citi™s most stable and lowest cost source of long-term 
funding, (ii) long-term debt (primarily senior and subordinated debt) issued 
at the non-bank level and certain bank subsidiaries, and (iii) stockholders™ 
equity. These sources may be supplemented by short-term borrowings, 
primarily in the form of secured financing transactions (securities loaned or 
sold under agreements to repurchase, or repos).As referenced above, Citigroup works to ensure that the structural tenor of these funding sources is sufficiently long in relation to the tenor of its 
asset base. The key goal of Citi™s asset/liability management is to ensure that 

there is excess tenor in the liability structure so as to provide excess liquidity 
to fund the assets. The excess liquidity resulting from a longer-term tenor 

profile can effectively offset potential decreases in liquidity that may occur 
under stress. This excess funding is held in the form of aggregate liquidity 
resources, as described below.
Non-bank Significant Citibank Entities
Other Citibank and Banamex Entities
Total
In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2012Sept. 30, 
2012
˜˚˛˛Dec. 31, 
2012Sept. 30, 
2012
˜˚˛˛Dec. 31, 
2012Sept. 30, 
2012
˜˚˛˛Dec. 31, 
2012Sept. 30, 
2012
˜˚˛˛Ł
$33.2$50.9
$  26.5$  72.7
$13.3$15.9
$  73.0$139.5
31.326.8
173.3164.0
76.273.9
280.8264.7
Total
$64.5$77.7
$199.8$236.7
$89.5$89.8
$353.8$404.2
All amounts in the table above are as of period-end and may increase or decrease intra-period in the ordinary course of business. As set forth in the table above, Citigroup™s aggregate liquidity resources 
totaled approximately $353.8 billion at December 31, 2012, compared to 
$404.2 billion at September 30, 2012 and $405.5 billion at December 31, 
2011. During 2011 and the first half of 2012, Citi consciously maintained 
an excess liquidity position given uncertainties in both the global economic 
outlook and the pace of its balance sheet deleveraging. In the second half 
of 2012, as these uncertainties showed signs of abating, Citi purposefully 
began to decrease its liquidity resources, primarily through long-term debt 
reductions and limiting deposit growth, as well as through increased lending 
to both Consumer and Corporate clients.As discussed in more detail below, this reduction in excess liquidity in turn 
contributed to a reduction in overall cost of funds, and thus improved Citi™s 

net interest margin, which increased to 2.88% for full year 2012 from 2.86% 
for full year 2011 (see ﬁDepositsﬂ and ﬁMarket RiskŠInterest Revenue/
Expense and Yieldsﬂ below, respectively).
At December 31, 2012, Citigroup™s non-bank aggregate liquidity 
resources totaled approximately $64.5 billion, compared to $77.7 billion at 
September 30, 2012 and $98.4 billion at December 31, 2011. These amounts 
included unencumbered liquid securities and cash held in Citi™s U.S. and 

non-U.S. broker-dealer entities. The purposeful decrease in aggregate 

liquidity resources of Citi™s non-bank entities year-over-year and quarter-

over-quarter was primarily due to the continued pay down and runoff of 

long-term debt, including Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) 

debt, which fully matured by the end of 2012.Citigroup™s significant Citibank entities had approximately 
$199.8 billion of aggregate liquidity resources as of December 31, 2012, compared to $236.7 billion at September 30, 2012 and $200.2 billion at December 31, 2011. The decrease in aggregate liquidity resources during 
the fourth quarter of 2012 was primarily due to an anticipated reduction in 
episodic deposits and the expiration of the Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program (see ﬁDepositsﬂ below), as well as the repayment of 

remaining TLGP borrowings and a reduction in secured borrowings. As of 
December 31, 2012, the significant Citibank entities™ liquidity resources 
included $26.5 billion of cash on deposit with major central banks 
(including the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank, European Central Bank, Bank 51of England, Swiss National Bank, Bank of Japan, the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority), compared with 
$72.7 billion at September 30, 2012 and $70.7 billion at December 31, 2011. The significant Citibank entities™ liquidity resources amount as of December 31, 2012 also included unencumbered liquid securities. These 

securities are available-for-sale or secured financing through private markets 

or by pledging to the major central banks. The liquidity value of these securities 

was $173.3 billion at December 31, 2012 compared to $164.0 billion at 

September 30, 2012 and $129.5 billion at December 31, 2011.Citi estimates that its other Citibank and Banamex entities and subsidiaries held approximately $89.5 billion in aggregate liquidity resources 
as of December 31, 2012, compared to $89.8 billion at September 30, 2012 
and $106.9 billion at December 31, 2011. The decrease year-over-year was 

primarily due to increased lending and limited deposit growth in those 
entities. The $89.5 billion as of December 31, 2012 included $13.3 billion 
of cash on deposit with central banks and $76.2 billion of unencumbered 
liquid securities.Citi™s $353.8 billion of aggregate liquidity resources as of December 31, 
2012 does not include additional potential liquidity in the form of Citigroup™s 

borrowing capacity from the various Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLB), 
which was approximately $36.7 billion as of December 31, 2012 and is 
maintained by pledged collateral to all such banks. The aggregate liquidity 
resources shown above also do not include Citi™s borrowing capacity at the 

U.S. Federal Reserve Bank discount window or international central banks, 
which capacity would also be in addition to the resources noted above.Moreover, in general, Citigroup can freely fund legal entities within 
its bank vehicles. Citigroup™s bank subsidiaries, including Citibank, N.A., 

can lend to the Citigroup parent and broker-dealer entities in accordance 

with Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. As of December 31, 2012, 
the amount available for lending to these non-bank entities under 
Section 23A was approximately $15 billion, provided the funds are 
collateralized appropriately.
Overall, subject to market conditions, Citi expects to continue to modestly manage down its aggregate liquidity resources as it continues to pay down 
or allow its outstanding long-term debt to mature (see ﬁLong-Term Debtﬂ 

below).Aggregate Liquidity ResourcesŠBy TypeThe following table shows the composition of Citi™s aggregate liquidity 

resources by type of asset as of each of the periods indicated. For securities, 
the amounts represent the liquidity value that could potentially be realized, 
and thus excludes any securities that are encumbered, as well as the haircuts 
that would be required for secured financing transactions. Year-over-year, the 

composition of Citi™s aggregate liquidity resources shifted as Citi continued 

to optimize its liquidity portfolio. Cash and foreign government trading 
securities (particularly in Western Europe) decreased, while U.S. treasuries 

and agencies increased.In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2012Sept. 30, 
2012˙
˜˚˛˛Ł
$73.0$139.5

˙“
89.073.0
˙
72.567.0
111.7119.5
7.65.2
Total
$353.8$404.2

˙





˙§˘“˙
The aggregate liquidity resources are composed entirely of cash and securities positions. While Citi utilizes derivatives to manage the interest 
rate and currency risks related to the aggregate liquidity resources, credit 
derivatives are not used.Deposits are the primary and lowest cost funding source for Citi™s 
bank subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 78% of the 
liabilities of Citi™s bank subsidiaries were deposits, compared to 76% as of 
September 30, 2012 and 75% as of December 31, 2011.The table below sets forth the end of period and average deposits, by business and/or segment, for each of the periods indicated.In billions of dollarsDec. 31,
2012Sept. 30,
2012
˜˚˛˛Global Consumer Banking
$165.2$156.8

13.212.9
”˘
48.647.3
110.0113.1
Total
$337.0$330.1

ICG$114.4$119.4

“
408.7425.5
Total
$523.1$544.9


2.52.8
Total Citicorp
$862.6$877.8

“
68.066.8
Total Citigroup Deposits (EOP)
$930.6$944.6

“
$928.9$921.2

Citi continued to focus on maintaining a geographically diverse retail 
and corporate deposit base that stood at approximately $931 billion at 

December 31, 2012, up 7% year-over-year. Average deposits of $929 billion as of 

December 31, 2012 increased 8% year-over-year. The increase in end-of-period 

deposits year-over-year was largely due to higher deposit volumes in each of 

Citicorp™s deposit-taking businesses 
(Transaction Services, Securities and 

Banking and Global Consumer Banking). Year-over-year deposit growth 

occurred in all four regions, including 9% growth in EMEA and 10% growth in 

Latin America. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 59% of Citi™s deposits 

were located outside of the U.S., compared to 61% at December 31, 2011.52Quarter-over-quarter, end-of-period deposits decreased 1% on a reported 
basis (2% when adjusted for the impact of FX translation). During the fourth quarter of 2012, there was an expected decline in end-of-period deposits 
reflecting the runoff of approximately $12 billion of episodic deposits which 
came in at the end of the third quarter, as well as $10 billion primarily due to 

the expiration of the TAG program on December 31, 2012. These reductions 

were partially offset by deposit growth across deposit-taking businesses, 
particularly Global Consumer Banking. Further, at the direction of MSSB, 

Citi transferred $4.5 billion in deposits to Morgan Stanley during the fourth 
quarter of 2012 in connection with the sale of Citi™s 14% interest in MSSB (see 

ﬁCiti HoldingsŠBrokerage and Asset Managementﬂ above), although this 
decline was offset by deposit growth in the normal course of business.During 2012, the composition of Citi™s deposits continued to shift toward 
a greater proportion of operating balances, and also toward non-interest-
bearing accounts within those operating balances. (Citi defines operating 
balances as checking and savings accounts for individuals, as well as cash 
management accounts for corporations. This compares to time deposits, 
where rates are fixed for the term of the deposit and which have generally 
lower margins). Citi believes that operating accounts are lower cost and 
more reliable deposits, and exhibit ﬁstickier,ﬂ or more retentive, behavior. 

Operating balances represented 79% of Citi™s average total deposit base as 

of December 31, 2012, compared to 76% at both September 30, 2012 and 
December 31, 2011. Citi currently expects this shift to continue into 2013.Deposits can be interest-bearing or non-interest-bearing. Of Citi™s $931 billion 
of deposits as of December 31, 2012, $195 billion were non-interest-bearing, 

compared to $177 billion at December 31, 2011. The remainder, or $736 billion, 

was interest-bearing, compared to $689 billion at December 31, 2011.Citi™s overall cost of funds on deposits decreased during 2012, despite 
deposit growth throughout the year. Excluding the impact of the higher FDIC 

assessment and deposit insurance, the average rate on Citi™s total deposits 

was 0.64% at December 31, 2012, compared with 0.80% at December 31, 
2011, and 0.86% at December 31, 2010. This translated into an approximate 
$345 million reduction in quarterly interest expense over the past two 
years. Consistent with prevailing interest rates, Citi experienced declining 
deposit rates during 2012, notwithstanding pressure on deposit rates due to 
competitive pricing in certain regions.Long-term debt (generally defined as original maturities of one year or 
more) continued to represent the most significant component of Citi™s 
funding for its non-bank entities, or 40% of the funding for the non-bank 
entities as of December 31, 2012, compared to 45% as of December 31, 2011. 
The vast majority of this funding is composed of senior term debt, along with 
subordinated instruments.Senior long-term debt includes benchmark notes and structured notes, such as equity- and credit-linked notes. Citi™s issuance of structured notes 

is generally driven by customer demand and is not a significant source of 
liquidity for Citi. Structured notes frequently contain contractual features, 
such as call options, which can lead to an expectation that the debt will be 
redeemed earlier than one year, despite contractually scheduled maturities 

greater than one year. As such, when considering the measurement of Citi™s 

long-term ﬁstructuralﬂ liquidity, structured notes with these contractual 

features are not included (see footnote 1 to the ﬁLong-Term Debt Issuances 

and Maturitiesﬂ table below).During 2012, due to the expected phase-out of Tier 1 Capital treatment 
for trust preferred securities beginning as early as 2013, Citi redeemed four 
series of its outstanding trust preferred securities, for an aggregate amount 
of approximately $5.9 billion. Furthermore, in anticipation of this change 
in qualifying regulatory capital, Citi issued approximately $2.25 billion of 
preferred stock during 2012. For details on Citi™s remaining outstanding 

trust preferred securities, as well as its long-term debt generally, see Note 19 

to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See also ﬁCapital ResourcesŠ
Regulatory Capital Standardsﬂ above.Long-term debt is an important funding source for Citi™s non-bank entities 
due in part to its multi-year maturity structure. The weighted average maturities 

of long-term debt issued by Citigroup and its affiliates, including Citibank, N.A., 

with a remaining life greater than one year as of December 31, 2012 (excluding 

trust preferred securities), was approximately 7.2 years, compared to 7.0 years at 

September 30, 2012 and 7.1 years at December 31, 2011.53Long-Term Debt OutstandingThe following table sets forth Citi™s total long-term debt outstanding for the 
periods indicated: In billions of dollarsDec. 31,
2012Sept. 30,
2012
˜˚˛˛Non-bank $188.3$210.0


171.0186.8
“
10.110.6

0.43.5
Œ
6.89.1
Bank $51.2$61.9


0.13.7

26.032.0

25.126.2
Total long-term debt 
$239.5$271.9

˙
˙Œ
˙

˙˘


˙˙˘

˙
As set forth in the table above, Citi™s overall long-term debt decreased by 
approximately $84 billion year-over-year. In the bank, the decrease was due 

to securitization and TLGP run-off that was replaced with deposit growth. 
In the non-bank, the decrease was primarily due to TLGP run-off, trust 
preferred redemptions, debt maturities and debt repurchases through tender 
offers or buybacks (see discussion below), partially offset by issuances. While 
long-term debt in the non-bank declined over the course of the past year, 

Citi correspondingly reduced its overall level of assetsŠincluding illiquid 
assetsŠthat debt was meant to support. These reductions are in keeping 
with Citi™s continued strategy to deleverage its balance sheet and lower 

funding costs.As noted above and as part of its liquidity and funding strategy, Citi has 
considered, and may continue to consider, opportunities to repurchase its 

long-term and short-term debt pursuant to open market purchases, tender 
offers or other means. Such repurchases further decrease Citi™s overall 

funding costs. During 2012, Citi repurchased an aggregate of approximately 
$11.1 billion of its outstanding long-term and short-term debt, primarily 
pursuant to selective public tender offers and open market purchases, 
compared to $3.3 billion during 2011.Citi expects to continue to reduce its outstanding long-term debt during 2013, although it expects such reductions to occur at a more moderate 
rate as compared to 2012. These reductions could occur through natural 
maturities as well as repurchases, tender offers, redemptions and similar 
means, depending upon the overall economic environment.Long-Term Debt Issuances and Maturities 
The table below details Citi™s long-term debt issuances and maturities (including repurchases) during the periods presented:˙2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚In billions of dollarsMaturitiesIssuances

$80.7$15.1


11.712.2


25.20.5

Total
$117.6$27.8

˙



˙
˙
˙˙
¤Œ˙¤

Œ
54The table below shows Citi™s aggregate expected annual long-term debt maturities as of December 31, 2012:
Expected Long-Term Debt Maturities as of December 31, 2012
In billions of dollars20132014201520162017ThereafterTotal


“







Total long-term debt

˙
˙
—˘
As set forth in the table above, Citi™s structural long-term debt maturities peaked during 2012 at $80.7 billion, and included the maturity of the last 
remaining TLGP debt. As referenced above, Citi supplements its primary sources of funding with 
short-term borrowings. Short-term borrowings generally include (i) secured 
financing (securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, or 
repos) and (ii) short-term borrowings consisting of commercial paper and 
borrowings from the FHLBs and other market participants. See Note 19 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on Citigroup™s 
and its affiliates™ outstanding short-term borrowings.The following table contains the year-end, average and maximum 
month-end amounts for the following respective short-term borrowings 
categories at the end of each of the three prior fiscal years.Federal funds purchased 
and securities sold under agreements to repurchase Short-term borrowings (1)Commercial paperOther short-term borrowings 
 (2)In billions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚

$211.2

$11.5

$40.5

Ł
223.8
17.9
36.3
237.1
21.9
40.6
Weighted-average interest rate
1.26%
0.47%
1.77%
0.81
0.60
1.06
˙
˙˙

˙Ł
˙
Interest expense˙Ł
‘˘
˙

55Secured FinancingSecured financing is primarily conducted through Citi™s broker-dealer 
subsidiaries to facilitate customer matched-book activity and to efficiently 
fund a portion of the trading inventory. As of December 31, 2012, 
approximately 36% of the funding for Citi™s non-bank entities, primarily the 
broker-dealer, was from secured financings. Secured financing was $211 billion as of December 31, 2012, compared to $198 billion as of December 31, 2011. Average balances for secured financing 

were approximately $224 billion for the year ended December 31, 2012, 
compared to $220 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011. Changes in levels of secured financing were primarily due to fluctuations in inventory 
for all periods discussed above (either on an end-of-quarter or on an 
average basis). Commercial Paper
Citi™s commercial paper balances have decreased and will likely continue 
to do so as Citi shifts its funding mix away from short-term sources to 
deposits and long-term debt and equity. The following table sets forth 
Citi™s commercial paper outstanding for each of its non-bank entities and 
significant Citibank entities, respectively, for each of the periods indicated:In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2012Sep. 30, 
2012˙
˜˚˛˛Commercial paper$0.4$0.6

11.111.8
Total
$11.5$12.4

Other Short-Term BorrowingsAt December 31, 2012, Citi™s other short-term borrowings, which 
includes borrowings from the FHLBs and other market participants, were 
approximately $41 billion, compared with $33 billion at December 31, 2011. Liquidity Management
Citi™s aggregate liquidity resources are managed by the Citi Treasurer. 
Liquidity is managed via a centralized treasury model by Corporate Treasury 
and by in-country treasurers. Pursuant to this structure, Citi™s liquidity 
resources are managed with a goal of ensuring the asset/liability match and 
that liquidity positions are appropriate in every country and throughout Citi.Citi™s Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the overall risk profile of Citi™s 
aggregate liquidity resources. The Chief Risk Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer co-chair Citi™s Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO), which 

includes Citi™s Treasurer and senior executives. ALCO sets the strategy of the 

liquidity portfolio and monitors its performance. Significant changes to 
portfolio asset allocations need to be approved by ALCO. Excess cash available in Citi™s aggregate liquidity resources is available to 
be invested in a liquid portfolio such that cash can be made available to meet 
demand in a stress situation. At December 31, 2012, Citi™s liquidity pool was 

primarily invested in cash, government securities, including U.S. agency debt 
and U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, and a certain amount of highly 
rated investment-grade credits. While the vast majority of Citi™s liquidity pool 

at December 31, 2012 consisted of long positions, Citi utilizes derivatives to 
manage its interest rate and currency risks; credit derivatives are not used. ˙



Liquidity Measures 
Citi uses multiple measures in monitoring its liquidity, including without 
limitation those described below. In broad terms, the structural liquidity ratio, defined as the sum of deposits, long-term debt and stockholders™ equity as a percentage of total 
assets, measures whether the asset base is funded by sufficiently long-dated 
liabilities. Citi™s structural liquidity ratio remained stable over the past year at 

approximately 73% as of December 31, 2012.In addition, Citi believes it is currently in compliance with the proposed Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), as amended by the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision on January 7, 2013 (the amended 
LCR guidelines), even though such ratio is not proposed to take full effect 
until 2019. Using the amended LCR guidelines, Citi™s estimated LCR was 

approximately 122% as of December 31, 2012, compared with approximately 
127% at September 30, 2012 and 143% at March 31, 2012.13 On a dollar basis, the 122% LCR represents additional liquidity of approximately $65 billion 
above the proposed minimum 100% LCR threshold. Citi™s LCR may decrease 

modestly over time. The LCR is designed to ensure banks maintain an adequate level of unencumbered cash and highly liquid securities that can be converted to 
cash to meet liquidity needs under an acute 30-day stress scenario. The LCR 
estimate is calculated in accordance with the amended LCR guidelines. 
Under the amended LCR guidelines, the LCR is calculated by dividing the 
amount of highly liquid unencumbered government and government-
backed cash securities, as well as unencumbered cash, by the estimated net 
outflows over a stressed 30-day period. The net cash outflows are calculated 
by applying assumed outflow factors, prescribed in the amended LCR 
guidelines, to the various categories of liabilities (deposits, unsecured and 
secured wholesale borrowings), as well as to unused commitments and 
derivatives-related exposures, partially offset by inflows from assets maturing 
within 30 days. The amended LCR requirements expanded the definition 
of liquid assets, and reduced outflow estimates for certain types of deposits 
and commitments. Stress TestingLiquidity stress testing is performed for each of Citi™s major entities, operating 
subsidiaries and/or countries. Stress testing and scenario analyses are 
intended to quantify the potential impact of a liquidity event on the balance 
sheet and liquidity position, and to identify viable funding alternatives that 
can be utilized. These scenarios include assumptions about significant 
changes in key funding sources, market triggers (such as credit ratings), 
potential uses of funding and political and economic conditions in certain 
countries. These conditions include standard and stressed market conditions 
as well as firm-specific events.A wide range of liquidity stress tests are important for monitoring purposes. Some span liquidity events over a full year, some may cover an 

intense stress period of one month, and still other time frames may be 
appropriate. These potential liquidity events are useful to ascertain potential 
mismatches between liquidity sources and uses over a variety of horizons 56(overnight, one week, two weeks, one month, three months, one year), and liquidity limits are set accordingly. To monitor the liquidity of a unit, 

those stress tests and potential mismatches may be calculated with varying 
frequencies, with several important tests performed daily.
Given the range of potential stresses, Citi maintains a series of contingency funding plans on a consolidated basis as well as for individual entities. These 
plans specify a wide range of readily available actions that are available in a 
variety of adverse market conditions, or idiosyncratic disruptions.Citigroup™s funding and liquidity, including its funding capacity, its ability 
to access the capital markets and other sources of funds, as well as the cost of 
these funds, and its ability to maintain certain deposits, is partially dependent 
on its credit ratings. The table below indicates the ratings for Citigroup, 
Citibank, N.A. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (a broker-dealer subsidiary 
of Citigroup) as of December 31, 2012.Citigroup Inc.Citibank, N.A.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.Senior debtCommercialpaperLong-termShort-termLong-term
AF1AF1
NR
Baa2P-2A3P-2
NR
A-A-2AA-1
A˙
Recent Credit Rating Developments
On December 5, 2012, S&P concluded its annual review of Citi with no 
changes to the ratings and outlooks on Citigroup and its subsidiaries. On 
October 16, 2012, S&P noted that Citi™s ratings remain unchanged despite 
the change in senior management. At the same time, S&P maintained 
a negative outlook on the ratings. These ratings continue to receive two 
notches of government support uplift, in line with other large banks.On October 16, 2012, Fitch noted the change in Citi™s senior management 
as an unexpected, but credit-neutral, event that would likely have no 
material impact on the credit profile of Citibank, N.A. or its ratings in the 
near term. On October 10, 2012, Fitch affirmed the long- and short-term 
ratings of ﬁA/F1ﬂ and the Viability Rating of ﬁa-ﬂ for Citigroup and Citibank, 

N.A. and, as of that date, the rating outlook by Fitch was stable. This rating 
action was taken in conjunction with Fitch™s periodic review of the 13 global 

trading and universal banks.On February 12, 2013, Moody™s changed the rating outlook on Citibank, 
N.A. from negative to stable, and affirmed the long-term ratings. The 
negative outlook was assigned on October 16, 2012, following changes in Citi™s senior management. Moody™s maintained the negative outlook on the 
long-term ratings of Citigroup Inc. On October 16, 2012, Moody™s affirmed 

the long- and short-term ratings of Citigroup and Citibank, N.A.Potential Impacts of Ratings Downgrades
Ratings downgrades by Moody™s, Fitch or S&P could negatively impact 
Citigroup™s and/or Citibank, N.A.™s funding and liquidity due to reduced 
funding capacity, including derivatives triggers, which could take the form of 
cash obligations and collateral requirements.The following information is provided for the purpose of analyzing the potential funding and liquidity impact to Citigroup and Citibank, N.A. of 
a hypothetical, simultaneous ratings downgrade across all three major 
rating agencies. This analysis is subject to certain estimates, estimation 
methodologies, and judgments and uncertainties, including without 
limitation those relating to potential ratings limitations certain entities may 
have with respect to permissible counterparties, as well as general subjective 
counterparty behavior (e.g., certain corporate customers and trading 
counterparties could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi, and 
limit the trading of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi). 
Moreover, changes in counterparty behavior could impact Citi™s funding 

and liquidity as well as the results of operations of certain of its businesses. 
Accordingly, the actual impact to Citigroup or Citibank, N.A. is unpredictable 

and may differ materially from the potential funding and liquidity impacts 
described below.
For additional information on the impact of credit rating changes on Citi and its applicable subsidiaries, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠLiquidity Risksﬂ below.
57Citigroup Inc. and Citibank, N.A.ŠPotential Derivative TriggersAs of December 31, 2012, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch 
downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citigroup across all three 
major rating agencies could impact Citigroup™s funding and liquidity due to 
derivative triggers by approximately $1.7 billion. Other funding sources, such 
as secured financing transactions and other margin requirements, for which 
there are no explicit triggers, could also be adversely affected.In addition, as of December 31, 2012, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citibank, N.A. across all 

three major rating agencies could impact Citibank, N.A.™s funding and liquidity 

due to derivative triggers by approximately $3.4 billion.In total, Citi estimates that a one-notch downgrade of Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., across all three major rating agencies, could result in 
aggregate cash obligations and collateral requirements of approximately 
$5.1 billion (see also Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 
As set forth under ﬁAggregate Liquidity Resourcesﬂ above, the aggregate 
liquidity resources of Citi™s non-bank entities were approximately $65 billion, 

and the aggregate liquidity resources of Citi™s significant Citibank entities and 

other Citibank and Banamex entities were approximately $289 billion, for a 
total of approximately $354 billion as of December 31, 2012. These liquidity 
resources are available in part as a contingency for the potential events 
described above.In addition, a broad range of mitigating actions are currently included in Citigroup™s and Citibank, N.A.™s detailed contingency funding plans. 

For Citigroup, these mitigating factors include, but are not limited to, 
accessing surplus funding capacity from existing clients, tailoring levels of 
secured lending, adjusting the size of select trading books and collateralized 
borrowings from Citi™s significant bank subsidiaries. Mitigating actions 

available to Citibank, N.A. include, but are not limited to, selling or 
financing highly liquid government securities, tailoring levels of secured 
lending, adjusting the size of select trading books, reducing loan originations 
and renewals, raising additional deposits, or borrowing from the FHLBs 
or central banks. Citi believes these mitigating actions could substantially 
reduce the funding and liquidity risk, if any, of the potential downgrades 

described above.Citibank, N.A.ŠAdditional Potential Impacts
In addition to the above derivative triggers, Citi believes that a potential one-
notch downgrade of Citibank, N.A.™s senior debt/long-term rating by S&P and 
Fitch could also have an adverse impact on the commercial paper/short-term 
rating of Citibank, N.A. As of December 31, 2012, Citibank, N.A. had liquidity 
commitments of approximately $18.7 billion to asset-backed commercial 
paper conduits. This included $11.1 billion of commitments to consolidated 
conduits and $7.6 billion of commitments to unconsolidated conduits (each 
as referenced in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).In addition to the above-referenced aggregate liquidity resources of Citi™s 
significant Citibank entities and other Citibank and Banamex entities, as 
well as the various mitigating actions previously noted, mitigating actions 
available to Citibank, N.A. to reduce the funding and liquidity risk, if any, 

of the potential downgrades described above, include repricing or reducing 
certain commitments to commercial paper conduits.In addition, in the event of the potential downgrades described above, Citi believes that certain corporate customers could re-evaluate their deposit 
relationships with Citibank, N.A. Among other things, this re-evaluation 
could include adjusting their discretionary deposit levels or changing their 
depository institution, each of which could potentially reduce certain deposit 
levels at Citibank, N.A. As a potential mitigant, however, Citi could choose to 

adjust pricing or offer alternative deposit products to its existing customers, 
or seek to attract deposits from new customers, as well as utilize the other 
mitigating actions referenced above.58Citigroup enters into various types of off-balance-sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business. Citi™s involvement in these arrangements can 
take many different forms, including without limitation:purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in special purpose 
entities, such as credit card receivables and mortgage-backed and other 
asset-backed securitization entities;holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited and general 
partnerships and equity interests in other unconsolidated entities; andproviding guarantees, indemnifications, loan commitments, letters of 
credit and representations and warranties.Citi enters into these arrangements for a variety of business purposes. These securitization entities offer investors access to specific cash flows 
and risks created through the securitization process. The securitization 
arrangements also assist Citi and Citi™s customers in monetizing their financial assets at more favorable rates than Citi or the customers could 
otherwise obtain.The table below presents where a discussion of Citi™s various off-balance-sheet arrangements may be found in this Form 10-K. In addition, 
see ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant EstimatesŠ
Securitizations,ﬂ as well as Notes 1, 22 and 27 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
˜˚˛˝˚˘
˘





˘

˘
˘59The following table includes information on Citigroup™s contractual obligations, as specified and aggregated pursuant to SEC requirements.Purchase obligations consist of those obligations to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on Citi. For presentation 
purposes, purchase obligations are included in the table below through 
the termination date of the respective agreements, even if the contract is 
renewable. Many of the purchase agreements for goods or services include 
clauses that would allow Citigroup to cancel the agreement with specified notice; however, that impact is not included in the table below (unless Citigroup has already notified the counterparty of its intention to terminate 
the agreement).Other liabilities reflected on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet 
include obligations for goods and services that have already been received, 
uncertain tax positions and other liabilities that have been incurred and will 
ultimately be paid in cash.Contractual obligations by yearIn millions of dollars20132014201520162017ThereafterTotal

’š€


›‘ˇ˛˚
⁄⁄š

•—ƒ•š•—šš

’—€
Total
$86,676$41,650$31,875$22,108$26,346$96,568$305,223
’š€˘
˘˚
˘˘
‹˘˚‘‘ˆ
‘˚˘
’—€˘‹˚
Other liabilities
˘˘

˘60The following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant regulatory, market and economic, liquidity, 
legal and business and operational risks and uncertainties that could 
impact Citi™s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Other 
factors, including those not currently known to Citi or its management, 
could also negatively impact Citi™s businesses, results of operations and 
financial condition, and thus the below should not be considered a complete 
discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties Citi may face.Citi Faces Ongoing Significant Regulatory Changes and 
Uncertainties in the U.S. and Non-U.S. Jurisdictions in 
Which It Operates That Negatively Impact the Management 
of Its Businesses, Results of Operations and Ability 
to Compete.Citi continues to be subject to significant regulatory changes and 
uncertainties both in the U.S. and the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which it 
operates. As discussed throughout this section, the complete scope and 
ultimate form of a number of provisions of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) and other 
regulatory initiatives in the U.S. are still being finalized and, even when 
finalized, will likely require significant interpretation and guidance. These 
regulatory changes and uncertainties are compounded by numerous 
regulatory initiatives underway in non-U.S. jurisdictions in which Citi 
operates. Certain of these initiatives, such as prohibitions or restrictions on 
proprietary trading or the requirement to establish ﬁliving wills,ﬂ overlap 
with changes in the U.S., while others, such as proposals for financial 
transaction and/or bank taxes in particular countries or regions, currently 
do not. Even when U.S. and international initiatives overlap, in many 
instances they have not been undertaken on a coordinated basis and areas 
of divergence have developed with respect to scope, interpretation, timing, 
structure or approach.Citi could be subject to additional regulatory requirements or changes beyond those currently proposed, adopted or contemplated, particularly 
given the ongoing heightened regulatory environment in which financial 
institutions operate. For example, in connection with their orderly 
liquidation authority under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. regulators may require that bank holding companies maintain a prescribed level 
of debt at the holding company level. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank 
Act, U.S. regulators may require additional collateral for inter-affiliate 

derivative and other credit transactions which, depending upon rulemaking 
and regulatory guidance, could be significant. There also continues to 
be discussion of potential GSE reform which would likely affect markets 
for mortgages and mortgage securities in ways that cannot currently be 
predicted. The heightened regulatory environment has resulted not only 
in a tendency toward more regulation, but toward the most prescriptive 
regulation as regulatory agencies have generally taken a conservative 
approach to rulemaking, interpretive guidance and their general ongoing 
supervisory authority.Regulatory changes and uncertainties make Citi™s business planning 
more difficult and could require Citi to change its business models or even 
its organizational structure, all of which could ultimately negatively impact 
Citi™s results of operations as well as realization of its deferred tax assets 

(DTAs). For example, regulators have proposed applying limits to certain 

concentrations of risk, such as through single counterparty credit limits or 
legal lending limits, and implementation of such limits currently or in the 
future could require Citi to restructure client or counterparty relationships 
and could result in the potential loss of clients.Further, certain regulatory requirements could require Citi to create new subsidiaries instead of branches in foreign jurisdictions, or create subsidiaries 
to conduct particular businesses or operations (so-called ﬁsubsidiarizationﬂ). 
This could, among other things, negatively impact Citi™s global capital and 

liquidity management and overall cost structure. Unless and until there is 
sufficient regulatory certainty, Citi™s business planning and proposed pricing 

for affected businesses necessarily include assumptions based on possible or 
proposed rules or requirements, and incorrect assumptions could impede 
Citi™s ability to effectively implement and comply with final requirements in 

a timely manner. Business planning is further complicated by the continual 

need to review and evaluate the impact on Citi™s businesses of ongoing rule 

proposals and final rules and interpretations from numerous regulatory 
bodies, all within compressed timeframes.Citi™s costs associated with implementation of, as well as the ongoing, extensive compliance costs associated with, new regulations or regulatory 
changes will likely be substantial and will negatively impact Citi™s results of 

operations. Given the continued regulatory uncertainty, however, the ultimate 

amount and timing of such impact going forward cannot be predicted. Also, 
compliance with inconsistent, conflicting or duplicative regulations, either 
within the U.S. or between the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions, could further 
increase the impact on Citi. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act provided for the 
elimination of ﬁfederal preemptionﬂ with respect to the operating subsidiaries 
of federally chartered institutions such as Citibank, N.A., which allows for a 
broader application of state consumer finance laws to such subsidiaries. As a 
result, Citi is now required to conform the consumer businesses conducted by 
operating subsidiaries of Citibank, N.A. to a variety of potentially conflicting 
or inconsistent state laws not previously applicable, such as laws imposing 
customer fee restrictions or requiring additional consumer disclosures. 
Failure to comply with these or other regulatory changes could further 
increase Citi™s costs or otherwise harm Citi™s
 reputation.Uncertainty persists regarding the competitive impact of these new regulations. Citi could be subject to more stringent regulations, or could 
incur additional compliance costs, compared to its U.S. competitors because 
of its global footprint. In addition, certain other financial intermediaries 
may not be regulated on the same basis or to the same extent as Citi and 
consequently may have certain competitive advantages. Moreover, Citi could be subject to more, or more stringent, regulations than its foreign 
competitors because of several U.S. regulatory initiatives, particularly with 
respect to Citi™s non-U.S. operations. Differences in substance and severity 

of regulations across jurisdictions could significantly reduce Citi™s ability to 
61compete with its U.S. and non-U.S. competitors and further negatively impact Citi™s results of operations. For example, Citi conducts a substantial portion of 

its derivatives activities through Citibank, N.A. Pursuant to the CFTC™s current 

and proposed rules on cross-border implications of the new derivatives 
registration and trading requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, clients 
who transact their derivatives business with overseas branches of Citibank, 
N.A. could be subject to U.S. registration and other derivatives requirements. 
Clients of Citi and other large U.S. financial institutions have expressed an 
unwillingness to continue to deal with overseas branches of U.S. banks if the 
rules would subject them to these requirements. As a result, Citi could lose 
clients to non-U.S. financial institutions that are not subject to the same 
compliance regime.Continued Uncertainty Regarding the Timing and 
Implementation of Future Regulatory Capital 
Requirements Makes It Difficult to Determine the Ultimate 
Impact of These Requirements on Citi™s Businesses 
and Results of Operations and Impedes Long-Term 
Capital Planning.During 2012, U.S. regulators proposed the U.S. Basel III rules that would be 
applicable to Citigroup and its depository institution subsidiaries, including 
Citibank, N.A. U.S. regulators also adopted final rules relating to Basel II.5 
market risk that were effective on January 1, 2013. This new regulatory 
capital regime will increase the level of capital required to be held by Citi, 
not only with respect to the quantity and quality of capital (such as capital 
required to be held in the form of common equity), but also as a result of 
increasing Citi™s overall risk-weighted assets.There continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the overall timing and implementation of the final U.S. regulatory capital rules. For example, 
while the U.S. Basel III rules have been proposed, additional rulemaking and 
interpretation is necessary to adopt and implement the final rules. Overall 
implementation phase-in will also need to be finalized by U.S. regulators, 
and it remains to be seen how U.S. regulators will address the interaction 
between the new capital adequacy rules, Basel I, Basel II, Basel II.5 and 
the proposed ﬁstandardizedﬂ approach serving as a ﬁfloorﬂ to the capital 
requirements of ﬁadvanced approachesﬂ institutions, such as Citigroup. 
(For additional information on the current and proposed regulatory capital 
standards applicable to Citi, see ﬁCapital Resources and Liquidity Œ Capital 
Resources Œ Regulatory Capital Standardsﬂ above.) As a result, the ultimate 
impact of this new regime on Citi™s businesses and results of operations cannot currently be estimated.Based on the proposed regulatory capital regime, the level of capital required to be held by Citi will likely be higher than most of its U.S. and 
non-U.S. competitors, including as a result of the level of DTAs recorded on Citi™s balance sheet and its strategic focus on emerging markets (which 

could result in Citi having higher risk-weighted assets under Basel III than 
those of its global competitors that either lack presence in, or are less focused 
on, such markets). In addition, while the Federal Reserve Board has yet 
to finalize any capital surcharge framework for U.S. ﬁglobal systemically 
important banksﬂ (G-SIBs), Citi is currently expected to be subject to a surcharge of 2.5%, which will likely be higher than the surcharge applicable 
to most of Citi™s U.S. and non-U.S. competitors. Competitive impacts of the 

proposed regulatory capital regime could further negatively impact Citi™s 

businesses and results of operations.Citi™s estimated Basel III capital ratios necessarily reflect management™s 
understanding, expectations and interpretation of the proposed U.S. Basel 
III requirements as well as existing implementation guidance. Furthermore, 
Citi must incorporate certain enhancements and refinements to its Basel 
II.5 market risk models, as required by both the Federal Reserve Board and 
the OCC, in order to retain the risk-weighted asset benefits associated with 
the conditional approvals received for such models. Citi must also separately 
obtain final approval from these agencies for the use of certain credit risk 
models that would also yield reduced risk-weighted assets, in part, under 
Basel III.All of these uncertainties make long-term capital planning by Citi™s management challenging. If management™s estimates and assumptions 

with respect to these or other aspects of U.S. Basel III implementation are 
not accurate, or if Citi fails to incorporate the required enhancement and 
refinements to its models as required by the Federal Reserve Board and the 
OCC, then Citi™s ability to meet its future regulatory capital requirements as 

it projects or as required could be negatively impacted, or the business and 
financial consequences of doing so could be more adverse than expected.The Ongoing Implementation of Derivatives Regulation 
Under the Dodd-Frank Act Could Adversely Affect Citi™s 
Derivatives Businesses, Increase Its Compliance Costs and 
Negatively Impact Its Results of Operations.Derivatives regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act have impacted and will 
continue to substantially impact the derivatives markets by, among other 
things: (i) requiring extensive regulatory and public reporting of derivatives 
transactions; (ii) requiring a wide range of over-the-counter derivatives to 
be cleared through recognized clearing facilities and traded on exchanges 
or exchange-like facilities; (iii) requiring the collection and segregation of 
collateral for most uncleared derivatives; and (iv) significantly broadening 
limits on the size of positions that may be maintained in specified derivatives. 
These market structure reforms will make trading in many derivatives 
products more costly, may significantly reduce the liquidity of certain 
derivatives markets and could diminish customer demand for covered 
derivatives. These changes could negatively impact Citi™s results of operations 
in its derivatives businesses.Numerous aspects of the new derivatives regime require costly and extensive compliance systems to be put in place and maintained. For 
example, under the new derivatives regime, certain of Citi™s subsidiaries have registered as ﬁswap dealers,ﬂ thus subjecting them to extensive ongoing 
compliance requirements, such as electronic recordkeeping (including 
recording telephone communications), real-time public transaction 
reporting and external business conduct requirements (e.g., required swap 
counterparty disclosures), among others. These requirements require the 
successful and timely installation of extensive technological and operational 
systems and compliance infrastructure, and Citi™s failure to effectively install 
62such systems subject it to increased compliance risks and costs which could negatively impact its earnings and result in regulatory or reputational 
risk. Further, new derivatives-related systems and infrastructure will likely 

become the basis on which institutions such as Citi compete for clients. To 

the extent that Citi™s connectivity, product offerings or services for clients in 

these businesses is deficient, this could further negatively impact Citi™s results 

of operationsAdditionally, while certain of the derivatives regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act have been finalized, the rulemaking process is not complete, 
significant interpretive issues remain to be resolved and the timing for the 
effectiveness of many of these requirements is not yet clear. Depending on 

how the uncertainty is resolved, certain outcomes could negatively impact 
Citi™s competitive position in these businesses, both with respect to the cross-

border aspects of the U.S. rules as well as with respect to the international 
coordination and timing of various non-U.S. derivatives regulatory reform 
efforts. For example, in mid-2012, the European Union (EU) adopted the 
European Market Infrastructure Regulation which requires, among other 
things, information on all European derivative transactions be reported 
to trade repositories and certain counterparties to clear ﬁstandardizedﬂ 
derivatives contracts through central counterparties. Many of these non-
U.S. reforms are likely to take effect after the corresponding provisions of 
the Dodd-Frank Act and, as a result, it is uncertain whether they will be 
similar to those in the U.S. or will impose different, additional or even 
inconsistent requirements on Citi™s derivatives activities. Complications due 

to the sequencing of the effectiveness of derivatives reform, both among 
different components of the Dodd-Frank Act and between the U.S. and other 
jurisdictions, could result in disruptions to Citi™s operations and make it more 

difficult for Citi to compete in these businesses.The Dodd-Frank Act also contains a so-called ﬁpush-outﬂ provision that, to date, has generally been interpreted to prevent FDIC-insured depository 
institutions from dealing in certain equity, commodity and credit-related derivatives, although the ultimate scope of the provision is not certain. Citi 
currently conducts a substantial portion of its derivatives-dealing activities 
within and outside the U.S. through Citibank, N.A., its primary insured 
depository institution. The costs of revising customer relationships and 
modifying the organizational structure of Citi™s businesses or the subsidiaries 

engaged in these businesses remain unknown and are subject to final 
regulations or regulatory interpretations, as well as client expectations. 
While this push-out provision is to be effective in July 2013, U.S. regulators 
may grant up to an initial two-year transition period to each depository 
institution. In January 2013, Citi applied for an initial two-year transition 
period for Citibank, N.A. The timing of any approval of a transition period 
request, or any parameters imposed on a transition period, remains 
uncertain. In addition, to the extent that certain of Citi™s competitors already 

conduct these derivatives activities outside of FDIC-insured depository 
institutions, Citi would be disproportionately impacted by any restructuring 
of its business for push-out purposes. Moreover, the extent to which Citi™s 

non-U.S. operations will be impacted by the push-out provision remains 
unclear, and it is possible that Citi could lose market share or profitability in 

its derivatives business or client relationships in jurisdictions where foreign 
bank competitors can operate without the same constraints.It Is Uncertain What Impact the Proposed Restrictions on 
Proprietary Trading Activities Under the Volcker Rule Will 
Have on Citi™s Market-Making Activities and Preparing for 
Compliance with the Proposed Rules Necessarily Subjects 
Citi to Additional Compliance Risks and Costs.The ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are intended in part 
to restrict the proprietary trading activities of institutions such as Citi. 
While the five regulatory agencies required to adopt rules to implement 
the Volcker Rule have each proposed their rules, none of the agencies has 
adopted final rules. Instead, in July 2012, the regulatory agencies instructed 
applicable institutions, including Citi, to engage in ﬁgood faith effortsﬂ to be 
in compliance with the Volcker Rule by July 2014. Because the regulations 
are not yet final, the degree to which Citi™s market-making activities will be 
permitted to continue in their current form remains uncertain. In addition, 
the proposed rules and any restrictions imposed by final regulations will 
also likely affect Citi™s trading activities globally, and thus will impact it 
disproportionately in comparison to foreign financial institutions that will 
not be subject to the Volcker Rule with respect to all of their activities outside 
of the U.S.As a result of this continued uncertainty, preparing for compliance based only on proposed rules necessarily requires Citi to make certain assumptions 
about the applicability of the Volcker Rule to its businesses and operations. 

For example, as proposed, the regulations contain exceptions for market-
making, underwriting, risk-mitigating hedging, certain transactions on 
behalf of customers and activities in certain asset classes, and require that 
certain of these activities be designed not to encourage or reward ﬁproprietary 
risk taking.ﬂ Because the regulations are not yet final, Citi is required to 
make certain assumptions as to the degree to which Citi™s activities in these 

areas will be permitted to continue. If these assumptions are not accurate, 
Citi could be subject to additional compliance risks and costs and could be 
required to undertake such compliance on a more compressed time frame 
when regulators issue final rules. In addition, the proposed regulations would 

require an extensive compliance regime for the ﬁpermittedﬂ activities under 
the Volcker Rule. Citi™s implementation of this compliance regime will be 

based on its ﬁgood faithﬂ interpretation and understanding of the proposed 
regulations, and to the extent its interpretation or understanding is not 
correct, Citi could be subject to additional compliance risks and costs.Like the other areas of ongoing regulatory reform, alternative proposals for the regulation of proprietary trading are developing in non-U.S. 
jurisdictions, leading to overlapping or potentially conflicting regimes. 
For example, in the U.K., the so-called ﬁVickersﬂ proposal would separate investment and commercial banking activity from retail banking and would 
require ring-fencing of U.K. domestic retail banking operations coupled 
with higher capital requirements for the ring-fenced assets. In the EU, the 
so-called ﬁLiikanenﬂ proposal would require the mandatory separation of 
proprietary trading and other significant trading activities into a trading 
entity legally separate from the legal entity holding the banking activities of 
a firm. It is likely that, given Citi™s worldwide operations, some form of the 

Vickers and/or Liikanen proposals will eventually be applicable to a portion 

of Citi™s operations. While the Volcker Rule and these non-U.S. proposals 

are intended to address similar concernsŠseparating the perceived risks of 63proprietary trading and certain other investment banking activities in order not to affect more traditional banking and retail activitiesŠthey would do 
so under different structures, resulting in inconsistent regulatory regimes and 
increased compliance and other costs for a global institution such as Citi.Regulatory Requirements in the U.S. and in Non-U.S. 
Jurisdictions to Facilitate the Future Orderly Resolution of 
Large Financial Institutions Could Negatively Impact Citi™s 
Business Structures, Activities and Practices.
The Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to prepare and submit annually a plan for 
the orderly resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) under the 
U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of future material financial distress or 
failure. Citi is also required to prepare and submit a resolution plan for its 
insured depository institution subsidiary, Citibank, N.A., and to demonstrate 
how Citibank is adequately protected from the risks presented by non-bank 
affiliates. These plans must include information on resolution strategy, 
major counterparties and ﬁinterdependencies,ﬂ among other things, and 
require substantial effort, time and cost across all of Citi™s businesses and 
geographies. These resolution plans are subject to review by the Federal 
Reserve Board and the FDIC.If the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC both determine that Citi™s resolution plans are not ﬁcredibleﬂ (which, although not defined, is 
generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plans are 
feasible or would otherwise allow the regulators to resolve Citi in a way 
that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic 
disruption and without exposing taxpayers to loss), and Citi does not remedy 
the deficiencies within the required time period, Citi could be required to 
restructure or reorganize businesses, legal entities, or operational systems 
and intracompany transactions in ways that could negatively impact its 
operations, or be subject to restrictions on growth. Citi could also eventually 
be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or 
be required to divest certain assets or operations.In addition, other jurisdictions, such as the U.K., have requested or are expected to request resolution plans from financial institutions, 
including Citi, and the requirements and timing relating to these plans 
are different from the U.S. requirements and from each other. Responding to these additional requests will require additional effort, time and cost, 
and regulatory review and requirements in these jurisdictions could be in 
addition to, or conflict with, changes required by Citi™s regulators in the U.S.
Additional Regulations with Respect to Securitizations Will Impose Additional Costs, Increase Citi™s Potential Liability 
and May Prevent Citi from Performing Certain Roles 
in Securitizations.
Citi plays a variety of roles in asset securitization transactions, including 
acting as underwriter of asset-backed securities, depositor of the underlying 
assets into securitization vehicles, trustee to securitization vehicles and 
counterparty to securitization vehicles under derivative contracts. The Dodd-
Frank Act contains a number of provisions that affect securitizations. These 
provisions include, among others, a requirement that securitizers in certain transactions retain un-hedged exposure to at least 5% of the economic 
risk of certain assets they securitize and a prohibition on securitization 
participants engaging in transactions that would involve a conflict with 
investors in the securitization. Many of these requirements have yet to be 
finalized. The SEC has also proposed additional extensive regulation of both 
publicly and privately offered securitization transactions through revisions 
to the registration, disclosure, and reporting requirements for asset-backed 
securities and other structured finance products. Moreover, the proposed 
capital adequacy regulations (see ﬁCapital Resources and LiquidityŠCapital 
ResourcesŠRegulatory Capital Standardsﬂ above) are likely to increase the 
capital required to be held against various exposures to securitizations.The cumulative effect of these extensive regulatory changes as well as other potential future regulatory changes cannot currently be assessed. 
It is likely, however, that these various measures will increase the costs 
of executing securitization transactions, and could effectively limit Citi™s 

overall volume of, and the role Citi may play in, securitizations, expose Citi 
to additional potential liability for securitization transactions and make it 
impractical for Citi to execute certain types of securitization transactions 
it previously executed. As a result, these effects could impair Citi™s ability 

to continue to earn income from these transactions or could hinder Citi™s 

ability to use such transactions to hedge risks, reduce exposures or reduce 
assets with adverse risk-weighting in its businesses, and those consequences 
could affect the conduct of these businesses. In addition, certain sectors 
of the securitization markets, particularly residential mortgage-backed 
securitizations, have been inactive or experienced dramatically diminished 
transaction volumes since the financial crisis. The impact of various 
regulatory reform measures could negatively delay or restrict any future 
recovery of these sectors of the securitization markets, and thus the 
opportunities for Citi to participate in securitization transactions in 
such sectors.There Continues to Be Significant Uncertainty Arising from 
the Ongoing Eurozone Debt and Economic Crisis, Including 
the Potential Outcomes That Could Occur and the Impact 
Those Outcomes Could Have on Citi™s Businesses, Results 
of Operations or Financial Condition, as well as the Global 
Financial Markets and Financial Conditions Generally.Several European countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and 
Spain (GIIPS), continue to experience credit deterioration due to weaknesses 
in their economic and fiscal situations. Concerns have been raised, both 
within the European Monetary Union (EMU) as well as internationally, as 
to the financial, political and legal effectiveness of measures taken to date, 
and the ability of these countries to adhere to any required austerity, reform 
or similar measures. These ongoing conditions have caused, and are likely to 
continue to cause, disruptions in the global financial markets, particularly 
if they lead to any future sovereign debt defaults and/or significant bank 
failures or defaults in the Eurozone.64The impact of the ongoing Eurozone debt and economic crisis and other developments in the EMU could be even more significant if they lead to a partial or complete break-up of the EMU. The exit of one or more member 
countries from the EMU could result in certain obligations relating to 
the exiting country being redenominated from the Euro to a new country 
currency. Redenomination could be accompanied by immediate revaluation 

of the new currency as compared to the Euro and the U.S. dollar, the extent 

of which would depend on the particular facts and circumstances. Any 
such redenomination/revaluation would cause significant legal and other 
uncertainty with respect to outstanding obligations of counterparties and 
debtors in any exiting country, whether sovereign or otherwise, and would 

likely lead to complex, lengthy litigation. Redenomination/revaluation could 
also be accompanied by the imposition of exchange and/or capital controls, 
required functional currency changes and ﬁdeposit flight.ﬂThe ongoing Eurozone debt and economic crisis has created, and will continue to create, significant uncertainty for Citi and the global 
economy. Any occurrence or combination of the events described above could negatively impact Citi™s businesses, results of operations and financial 

condition, both directly through its own exposures as well as indirectly. 

For example, at times, Citi has experienced widening of its credit spreads 
and thus increased costs of funding due to concerns about its Eurozone 
exposure. In addition, U.S. regulators could impose mandatory loan loss 
and other reserve requirements on U.S. financial institutions, including 
Citi, if a particular country™s economic situation deteriorates below a certain 

level, which could negatively impact Citi™s earnings, perhaps significantly. 

Citi™s businesses, results of operations and financial condition could also be 

negatively impacted due to a decline in general global economic conditions 
as a result of the ongoing Eurozone crises, particularly given its global 
footprint and strategy. In addition to the uncertainties and potential impacts 

described above, the ongoing Eurozone crisis and/or partial or complete 
break-up of the EMU could cause, among other things, severe disruption to 
global equity markets, significant increases in bond yields generally, potential 

failure or default of financial institutions (including those of systemic 
importance), a significant decrease in global liquidity, a freeze-up of global 

credit markets and worldwide recession.While Citi endeavors to mitigate its credit and other exposures related to the Eurozone, the potential outcomes and impact of those outcomes 
resulting from the Eurozone crisis are highly uncertain and will ultimately 
be based on the specific facts and circumstances. As a result, there can be no 
assurance that the various steps Citi has taken to protect its businesses, results 
of operations and financial condition against these events will be sufficient. 
In addition, there could be negative impacts to Citi™s businesses, results of operations or financial condition that are currently unknown to Citi and 
thus cannot be mitigated as part of its ongoing contingency planning. For 
additional information on these matters, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠ
Country Riskﬂ below.The Continued Uncertainty Relating to the Sustainability 
and Pace of Economic Recovery in the U.S. and Globally 
Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi™s Businesses and 
Results of Operations. Moreover, Any Significant Global 
Economic Downturn or Disruption, Including a Significant 
Decline in Global Trade Volumes, Could Materially and 
Adversely Impact Citi™s Businesses, Results of Operations 
and Financial Condition.Like other financial institutions, Citi™s businesses have been, and could 
continue to be, negatively impacted by the uncertainty surrounding the 
sustainability and pace of economic recovery in the U.S. as well as globally. 
This continued uncertainty has impacted, and could continue to impact, 
the results of operations in, and growth of, Citi™s businesses. Among other 
impacts, continued economic concerns can negatively affect Citi™s ICG businesses, as clients cut back on trading and other business activities, as 
well as its Consumer businesses, including its credit card and mortgage 
businesses, as continued high levels of unemployment can impact payment 
and thus delinquency and loss rates. Fiscal and monetary actions taken by 
U.S. and non-U.S. government and regulatory authorities to spur economic 
growth or otherwise, such as by maintaining a low interest rate environment, 
can also have an impact on Citi™s businesses and results of operations. For 
example, actions by the Federal Reserve Board can impact Citi™s cost of funds 
for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the returns it earns on 
those loans and investments, both of which affect Citi™s net interest margin.Moreover, if a severe global economic downturn or other major economic disruption were to occur, including a significant decline in global trade 

volumes, Citi would likely experience substantial loan and other losses and 
be required to significantly increase its loan loss reserves, among other 
impacts. A global trade disruption that results in a permanently reduced level 
of trade volumes and increased costs of global trade, whether as a result of 
a prolonged ﬁtrade warﬂ or some other reason, could significantly impact 
trade financing activities, certain trade dependent economies (such as the 
emerging markets in Asia) as well as certain industries heavily dependent 
on trade, among other things. Given Citi™s global strategy and focus on the 

emerging markets, such a downturn and decrease in global trade volumes 
could materially and adversely impact Citi™s businesses, results of operation 

and financial condition, particularly as compared to its competitors. This could include, among other things, a potential that any such losses would 
not be tax benefitted, given the current environment.Concerns About the Level of U.S. Government Debt and a Downgrade (or a Further Downgrade) of the U.S. 
Government Credit Rating Could Negatively Impact Citi™s 
Businesses, Results of Operations, Capital, Funding 
and Liquidity.Concerns about the level of U.S. government debt and uncertainty relating to 
fiscal actions that may be taken to address these and related issues have, and 
could continue to, adversely affect Citi. In 2011, Standard & Poor™s lowered 
its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. government from AAA to 
AA+, and Moody™s and Fitch both placed such rating on negative outlook. 65According to the credit rating agencies, these actions resulted from the high level of U.S. government debt and the continued inability of Congress to 
reach an agreement to ensure payment of U.S. government debt and reduce 
the U.S. debt level. Among other things, a future downgrade (or further 
downgrade) of U.S. debt obligations or U.S. government-related obligations, 
or concerns that such a downgrade might occur, could negatively affect 
Citi™s ability to obtain funding collateralized by such obligations and the 
pricing of such funding as well as the pricing or availability of Citi™s funding 
as a U.S. financial institution. Any further downgrade could also have a 
negative impact on financial markets and economic conditions generally 
and, as a result, could have a negative impact on Citi™s businesses, results of 
operations, capital, funding and liquidity.Citi™s Extensive Global Network Subjects It to Various 
International and Emerging Markets Risks as well as 
Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks and Costs.During 2012, international revenues accounted for approximately 57% 
of Citi™s total revenues. In addition, revenues from the emerging markets 
(which Citi generally defines as the markets in Asia (other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), the Middle East, Africa and central and eastern 
European countries in EMEA and the markets in Latin America) accounted 
for approximately 44% of Citi™s total revenues in 2012.Citi™s extensive global network subjects it to a number of risks associated with international and emerging markets, including, among others, 
sovereign volatility, political events, foreign exchange controls, limitations 

on foreign investment, socio-political instability, nationalization, closure 

of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of assets. For example, Citi 
operates in several countries, such as Argentina and Venezuela, with strict 

foreign exchange controls that limit its ability to convert local currency into 
U.S. dollars and/or transfer funds outside the country. In such cases, Citi 

could be exposed to a risk of loss in the event that the local currency devalues 
as compared to the U.S. dollar (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠ Country 
and Cross-Border Riskﬂ below). There have also been instances of political 
turmoil and other instability in some of the countries in which Citi operates, 
including in certain countries in the Middle East and Africa, to which Citi 
has responded by transferring assets and relocating staff members to more 
stable jurisdictions. Similar incidents in the future could place Citi™s staff and 

operations in danger and may result in financial losses, some significant, 
including nationalization of Citi™s
 assets.Additionally, given its global focus, Citi could be disproportionately impacted as compared to its competitors by an economic downturn in the 
international and/or emerging markets, whether resulting from economic 
conditions within these markets, the ripple effect of the ongoing Eurozone 
crisis, the global economy generally or otherwise. If a particular country™s 

economic situation were to deteriorate below a certain level, U.S. regulators 
could impose mandatory loan loss and other reserve requirements on 
Citi, which could negatively impact its earnings, perhaps significantly. In 

addition, countries such as China, Brazil and India, each of which are part of 
Citi™s emerging markets strategy, have recently experienced uncertainty over 
the pace and extent of future economic growth. Lower or negative growth in 
these or other emerging market economies could make execution of Citi™s 

global strategy more challenging and could adversely affect Citi™s results 

of operations.Citi™s extensive global operations also increase its compliance and regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi™s operations in emerging 

markets subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations 
primarily focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such 
as anti-money-laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act, which can be more acute in less developed markets and thus require 
substantial investment in compliance infrastructure. Any failure by Citi to 
comply with applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the 
countries and markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, 
could result in fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, any 
of which could negatively impact Citi™s earnings and its general reputation. 

Further, Citi provides a wide range of financial products and services to 

the U.S. and other governments, to multi-national corporations and other 
businesses, and to prominent individuals and families around the world. 
The actions of these clients involving the use of Citi products or services 
could result in an adverse impact on Citi, including adverse regulatory and 
reputational impact.The Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity Depends on 
Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of Citi™s 
Control such as Market Disruptions and Increases in Citi™s 
Credit Spreads.As a global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding 
are essential to Citi™s businesses. Citi™s liquidity and sources of funding can 
be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as 
general disruptions in the financial markets or negative perceptions about 
the financial services industry in general, or negative investor perceptions of 
Citi™s liquidity, financial position or creditworthiness in particular. Market 
perception of sovereign default risks, including those arising from the 
ongoing Eurozone debt crisis, can also lead to inefficient money markets 
and capital markets, which could further impact Citi™s availability and cost 
of funding.In addition, Citi™s cost and ability to obtain deposits, secured funding and long-term unsecured funding from the credit and capital markets are directly 
related to its credit spreads. Changes in credit spreads constantly occur 
and are market-driven, including both external market factors and factors 
specific to Citi, and can be highly volatile. Citi™s credit spreads may also be 

influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps 
referenced to Citi™s long-term debt, which are also impacted by these external 

and Citi-specific factors. Moreover, Citi™s ability to obtain funding may be 

impaired if other market participants are seeking to access the markets at the 
same time, or if market appetite is reduced, as is likely to occur in a liquidity 
or other market crisis. In addition, clearing organizations, regulators, clients 
and financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to 66require additional collateral based on these market perceptions or market conditions, which could further impair Citi™s access to and cost of
 funding.As a holding company, Citigroup relies on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy 
its debt and other obligations. Several of Citigroup™s subsidiaries are subject 

to capital adequacy or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on their 
ability to provide such payments. Limitations on the payments that Citigroup 
receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity.For additional information on Citi™s funding and liquidity, including 
Basel III regulatory liquidity standards, see ﬁCapital Resources and 
LiquidityŠFunding and LiquidityŠLiquidity Management, Measures and 
Stress Testingﬂ
 above.The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the 
Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and 
Reductions in Citi™s or Its More Significant Subsidiaries™ 
Credit Ratings Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi™s 
Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding Capacity, 
Including Derivatives Triggers That Could Require Cash 
Obligations or Collateral Requirements.The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody™s and S&P, continuously 
evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries, and their ratings of Citi™s and 
its more significant subsidiaries™ long-term/senior debt and short-term/
commercial paper, as applicable, are based on a number of factors, including 
financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within the control of 
Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies™ proprietary rating agency 
methodologies and assumptions and conditions affecting the financial 
services industry and markets generally.Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. A ratings downgrade by Fitch, Moody™s or S&P could negatively impact Citi™s ability to access the capital markets and other sources 

of funds as well as the costs of those funds, and its ability to maintain certain 
deposits. A ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi™s 

funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity, including derivative 

triggers, which could take the form of cash obligations and collateral 
requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade could also have a negative 
impact on other funding sources, such as secured financing and other 
margined transactions for which there are no explicit triggers, as well as on 
contractual provisions which contain minimum ratings thresholds in order 
for Citi to hold third-party funds.Moreover, credit ratings downgrades can have impacts which may not be currently known to Citi or which are not possible to quantify. For 

example, some entities may have ratings limitations as to their permissible 
counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. In addition, certain 
of Citi™s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, 

could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading 
of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings 
downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact 
not only Citi™s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of 

certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of 
a reduction in Citi™s or Citibank, N.A.™s credit ratings, see ﬁCapital Resources 

and LiquidityŠFunding and LiquidityŠCredit Ratingsﬂ above.Citi Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory 
Proceedings, Investigations, and Inquiries That Could 
Result in Substantial Losses. These Matters Are Often 
Highly Complex and Slow to Develop, and Results Are 
Difficult to Predict or Estimate.At any given time, Citi is defending a significant number of legal and 
regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and 
regulatory examinations, investigations and other inquiries. These 
proceedings, examinations, investigations and inquiries could result, 
individually or collectively, in substantial losses.In the wake of the financial crisis of 2007Œ2009, the frequency with which such proceedings, investigations and inquiries are initiated, and the 
severity of the remedies sought, have increased substantially, and the global judicial, regulatory and political environment has generally become more 
hostile to large financial institutions such as Citi. Many of the proceedings, 
investigations and inquiries involving Citi relating to events before or during 
the financial crisis have not yet been resolved, and additional proceedings, 
investigations and inquiries relating to such events may still be commenced. 
In addition, heightened expectations by regulators and other enforcement 
authorities for strict compliance could also lead to more regulatory and other 
enforcement proceedings seeking greater sanctions for financial institutions 
such as Citi.For example, Citi is currently subject to extensive legal and regulatory inquiries, actions and investigations relating to its historical mortgage-
related activities, including claims regarding the accuracy of offering 
documents for residential mortgage-backed securities and alleged breaches 
of representation and warranties relating to the sale of mortgage loans or 
the placement of mortgage loans into securitization trusts (for additional 
information on representation and warranty matters, see ﬁManaging Global 
RiskŠCredit RiskŠCitigroup Residential MortgagesŠRepresentations 
and Warrantiesﬂ below). Citi is also subject to extensive legal and regulatory inquiries, actions and investigations relating to, among other things, 
submissions made by Citi and other panel banks to bodies that publish 
various interbank offered rates, such as the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate 

(LIBOR), or other rates or benchmarks. Like other banks with operations 
in the U.S., Citi is also subject to continuing oversight by the OCC and other 
bank regulators, and inquiries and investigations by other governmental 
and regulatory authorities, with respect to its anti-money laundering 
program. Other banks subject to similar or the same inquiries, actions or 
investigations have incurred substantial liability in relation to their activities 
in these areas, including in a few cases criminal convictions or deferred 
prosecution agreements respecting corporate entities as well as substantial 
fines and penalties.67Moreover, regulatory changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and 
other recent regulatory changesŠsuch as the limitations on federal preemption in the consumer arena, the creation of the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau with its own examination and enforcement authority 
and the ﬁwhistle-blowerﬂ provisions of the Dodd-Frank ActŠcould further 
increase the number of legal and regulatory proceedings against Citi. In 
addition, while Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and detect employee 
misconduct, such as fraud, employee misconduct cannot always be deterred 
or prevented and could subject Citi to additional liability.All of these inquiries, actions and investigations have resulted in, and will continue to result in, significant time, expense and diversion of 
management™s attention. In addition, proceedings brought against Citi 

may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, restitution, 
disgorgement, injunctions, business improvement orders or other results 
adverse to it, which could materially and negatively affect Citi™s businesses, 

financial condition or results of operations, require material changes in Citi™s 

operations, or cause Citi reputational harm. Moreover, many large claims 

asserted against Citi are highly complex and slow to develop, and they may 
involve novel or untested legal theories. The outcome of such proceedings is 
difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings, which may last 
several years. In addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval 
and may not be approved. Although Citi establishes accruals for its legal 
and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, the amount 
of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially 
higher than the amounts accrued. For additional information relating to 
Citi™s legal and regulatory proceedings, see Note 28 to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements.The Remaining Assets in Citi Holdings Will Likely Continue to 
Have a Negative Impact on Citi™s Results of Operations and Its 
Ability to Utilize the Capital Supporting the Remaining Assets 

in Citi Holdings for More Productive Purposes.As of December 31, 2012, the remaining assets within Citi Holdings 
constituted approximately 8% of Citigroup™s GAAP assets and 15% of its 
risk-weighted assets (as defined under current regulatory guidelines). Also as 
of December 31, 2012, LCL constituted approximately 81% of Citi Holdings assets, of which approximately 73% consisted of legacy U.S. mortgages which 
had an estimated weighted average life of six years.The pace of the wind-down of the remaining assets within Citi Holdings has slowed as Citi has disposed of certain of the larger businesses within 
this segment. While Citi™s strategy continues to be to reduce the remaining assets in Citi Holdings as quickly as practicable in an economically rational 
manner, sales of the remaining assets could largely depend on factors outside 

of Citi™s control, such as market appetite and buyer funding. Assets that are 

not sold will continue to be subject to ongoing run-off and paydowns. As a 
result, Citi Holdings™ remaining assets will likely continue to have a negative 
impact on Citi™s overall results of operations. Moreover, Citi™s ability to utilize 

the capital supporting the remaining assets within Citi Holdings and thus 
use such capital for more productive purposes, including return of capital 
to shareholders, will also depend on the ultimate pace and level of the wind-
down of Citi Holdings.Citi™s Ability to Return Capital to Shareholders Is Dependent 
in Part on the CCAR Process and the Results of Required 

Regulatory Stress Tests and Other Governmental Approvals.In addition to Board of Directors™ approval, any decision by Citi to return 
capital to shareholders, whether through an increase in its common stock 
dividend or by initiating a share repurchase program, is dependent in part 
on regulatory approval, including annual regulatory review of the results 
of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process required 
by the Federal Reserve Board and the supervisory stress tests required under 
the Dodd-Frank Act. Restrictions on Citi™s ability to increase its common 
stock dividend or engage in share repurchase programs as a result of these 
processes has, and could in the future, negatively impact market perceptions 
of Citi.Citi™s ability to accurately predict or explain to stakeholders the outcome of the CCAR process, and thus address any such market perceptions, is 
hindered by the Federal Reserve Board™s use of proprietary stress test models. 

In 2013, for the first time there will also be a requirement for Citi to publish, 
in March and September, certain stress test results (as prescribed by the 

Federal Reserve Board) that will be based on Citi™s own stress tests models. 

The Federal Reserve Board will disclose, in March, certain results based on 
its proprietary stress test models. Because it is not clear how these proprietary 
models may differ from Citi™s models, it is likely that Citi™s stress test results 

using its own models may not be consistent with those eventually disclosed by 
the Federal Reserve Board, thus potentially leading to additional confusion 
and impacts to Citi™s perception in the
 market.In addition, pursuant to Citi™s agreement with the FDIC entered into in connection with exchange offers consummated in July and September 2009, 
Citi remains subject to dividend and share repurchase restrictions for as long 
as the FDIC continues to hold any Citi trust preferred securities acquired 
in connection with the exchange offers. While these restrictions may be 
waived, they generally prohibit Citi from paying regular cash dividends in 
excess of $0.01 per share of common stock per quarter or from redeeming or 
repurchasing any Citi equity securities, which includes its common stock or 
trust preferred securities. As of February 15, 2013, the FDIC continued to hold 
approximately $2.225 billion of trust preferred securities issued in connection 
with the exchange offers (which become redeemable on July 30, 2014).68Citi May Be Unable to Reduce Its Level of Expenses as It Expects, and Investments in Its Businesses May Not 
Be Productive.Citi continues to pursue a disciplined expense-management strategy, 
including re-engineering, restructuring operations and improving the 
efficiency of functions. In December 2012, Citi announced a series of 
repositioning actions designed to further reduce its expenses and improve its 
efficiency. However, there is no guarantee that Citi will be able to reduce its 
level of expenses, whether as a result of the recently-announced repositioning 
actions or otherwise, in the future. Citi™s ultimate expense levels also depend, 
in part, on factors outside of its control. For example, as a result of the 
extensive legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries to which Citi is 
subject, Citi™s legal and related costs remain elevated, have been, and are 
likely to continue to be, subject to volatility and are difficult to predict. In 
addition, expenses incurred in Citi™s foreign entities are subject to foreign 
exchange volatility. Further, Citi™s ability to continue to reduce its expenses 
as a result of the wind-down of Citi Holdings will also decline as Citi Holdings 
represents a smaller overall portion of Citigroup. Moreover, investments 
Citi has made in its businesses, or may make in the future, may not be as 
productive as Citi expects or at all.Citi™s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs Will Be Driven by Its Ability 
to Generate U.S. Taxable Income, Which Could Continue to 
Be Negatively Impacted by the Wind-Down of Citi Holdings.Citigroup™s total DTAs increased by approximately $3.8 billion in 2012 to $55.3 billion at December 31, 2012, while the time remaining for utilization has 

shortened, particularly with respect to the foreign tax credit (FTC) component 
of the DTAs. The increase in the total DTAs in 2012 was due, in large part, to 

the continued negative impact of Citi Holdings on Citi™s U.S. taxable income.The accounting treatment for DTAs is complex and requires a significant amount of judgment and estimates regarding future taxable earnings 
in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning 

strategies. Realization of the DTAs will continue to be driven primarily 

by Citi™s ability to generate U.S. taxable income in the relevant tax carry-

forward periods, particularly the FTC carry-forward periods. Citi does not 
expect a significant reduction in the balance of its net DTAs during 2013. For 

additional information, see ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant 
EstimatesŠIncome Taxesﬂ below and Note 10 to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements.The Value of Citi™s DTAs Could Be Significantly Reduced If 
Corporate Tax Rates in the U.S. or Certain State or Foreign 
Jurisdictions Decline or as a Result of Other Changes in the 
U.S. Corporate Tax System.Congress and the Obama Administration have discussed decreasing the U.S. 
corporate tax rate. Similar discussions have taken place in certain state 
and foreign jurisdictions. While Citi may benefit in some respects from 
any decrease in corporate tax rates, a reduction in the U.S., state or foreign 
corporate tax rates could result in a significant decrease in the value of Citi™s 
DTAs. There have also been recent discussions of more sweeping changes 
to the U.S. tax system, including changes to the tax treatment of foreign 
business income. It is uncertain whether or when any such tax reform 
proposals will be enacted into law, and whether or how they will affect 
Citi™s DTAs.Citi Maintains Contractual Relationships with Various 
Retailers and Merchants Within Its U.S. Credit Card 
Businesses in NA RCB, and the Failure to Maintain Those 
Relationships Could Have a Material Negative Impact 
on the Results of Operations or Financial Condition of 
Those Businesses.Through its U.S. Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services credit card 
businesses within North America Regional Consumer Banking (NA RCB), Citi maintains numerous co-branding relationships with third-party 
retailers and merchants in the ordinary course of business pursuant to which 
Citi issues credit cards to customers of the retailers or merchants. These 
agreements provide for shared economics between the parties and ways 
to increase customer brand loyalty, and generally have a fixed term that 
may be extended or renewed by the parties or terminated early in certain 
circumstances. While various mitigating factors could be available in the 
event of the loss of one or more of these co-branding relationships, such as 
replacing the retailer or merchant or by Citi™s offering new card products, the 
results of operations or financial condition of Citi-branded cards or Citi retail 
services, as applicable, or NA RCB could be negatively impacted, and the 
impact could be material.These agreements could be terminated due to, among other factors, a breach by Citi of its responsibilities under the applicable co-branding 
agreement, a breach by the retailer or merchant under the agreement, or 
external factors outside of either party™s control, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings or consolidations and other similar events that 
may occur. For example, within 
NA RCB Citi-branded cards, Citi issues a co-
branded credit card product with American Airlines, the Citi-AAdvantage card. 
As has been widely reported, AMR Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, 
including American Airlines, Inc. (collectively, AMR), filed voluntary 

petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy code 
in November 2011. On February 14, 2013, AMR and US Airways Group, Inc. 
announced that the boards of directors of both companies had approved a 
merger agreement under which the companies would be combined. The 
merger, which is conditioned upon, among other things, U.S. Bankruptcy 

Court approval, is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2013. To 

date, the ongoing AMR bankruptcy and the merger announcement have 
not had a material impact on the results of operations for U.S. Citi-branded 
cards or NA RCB. However, it is not certain when the bankruptcy and merger 

processes will be resolved, what the outcome will be, whether or over what 
period the Citi-AAdvantage card program will continue to be maintained and 
whether the impact of the bankruptcy or merger could be material to the 
results of operations or financial condition of U.S. Citi-branded cards or NA RCB over time.69Citi™s Operational Systems and Networks Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Subject to an Increasing Risk of 
Continually Evolving Cybersecurity or Other Technological 
Risks, Which Could Result in the Disclosure of Confidential 
Client or Customer Information, Damage to Citi™s 
Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory Penalties 
and Financial Losses.A significant portion of Citi™s operations relies heavily on the secure 
processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information 
as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a 
minute-by-minute basis. For example, through its global consumer banking, 
credit card and Transaction Services businesses, Citi obtains and stores an 
extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, 
corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately 
record and reflect their extensive account transactions. With the evolving 
proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the Internet and 
mobile devices to conduct financial transactions, large, global financial 
institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject to an 
increasing risk of cyber incidents from these activities.Although Citi devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures such as intrusion and 
detection prevention systems and monitoring firewalls to safeguard critical 
business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other 
measures can provide absolute security. Citi™s computer systems, software and 
networks are subject to ongoing cyber incidents such as unauthorized access; 
loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information); 
account takeovers; unavailability of service; computer viruses or other 
malicious code; cyber attacks; and other events. These threats may derive 
from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, 

or may result from accidental technological failure. Additional challenges 
are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in 
some circumstances as a means to promote political ends. If one or more 
of these events occurs, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client 
information, damage to Citi™s reputation with its clients and the market, 

customer dissatisfaction, additional costs to Citi (such as repairing systems 
or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties, 
exposure to litigation and other financial losses to both Citi and its clients 
and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions 
in the operations of Citi (such as the lack of availability of Citi™s online 

banking system), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other 
third parties. Given Citi™s global footprint and high volume of transactions 

processed by Citi, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded 
before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these 
costs and consequences.Citi has been subject to intentional cyber incidents from external sources, including (i) denial of service attacks, which attempted to interrupt 
service to clients and customers; (ii) data breaches, which aimed to obtain 
unauthorized access to customer account data; and (iii) malicious software 
attacks on client systems, which attempted to allow unauthorized entrance 
to Citi™s systems under the guise of a client and the extraction of client data. For example, in 2012 Citi and other U.S. financial institutions experienced 
distributed denial of service attacks which were intended to disrupt consumer 
online banking services. While Citi™s monitoring and protection services were 

able to detect and respond to these incidents before they became significant, 
they still resulted in certain limited losses in some instances as well as 
increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future 
cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such cyber incidents will not 
occur again, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant 
scale. In addition, because the methods used to cause cyber attacks change 
frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched, Citi may be 

unable to implement effective preventive measures or proactively address 
these methods.Third parties with which Citi does business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks. Citi outsources certain functions, 
such as processing customer credit card transactions, uploading content 
on customer-facing websites, and developing software for new products and services. These relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer 
information, by third party hosting of or access to Citi websites, which could 
result in service disruptions or website defacements, and the potential to 
introduce vulnerable code, resulting in security breaches impacting Citi 
customers. While Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure 
resulting from outsourcing, such as performing onsite security control 
assessments, limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary 
to perform job functions, and restricting third-party processing to systems 
stored within Citi™s data centers, ongoing threats may result in unauthorized 

access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents with increased 
costs and consequences to Citi such as those discussed above. Furthermore, 
because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected 
with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including through the 
derivatives provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, Citi has increased exposure to 
operational failure or cyber attacks through third parties.While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain 
aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover 
all losses.70Citi™s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted If Citi Is Not Able 
to Hire and Retain Qualified Employees for Any Reason.Citi™s performance and the performance of its individual businesses is 
largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled employees. 
Specifically, Citi™s continued ability to compete in its businesses, to manage 
its businesses effectively and to continue to execute its overall global strategy 
depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its 
existing employees. Citi™s ability to attract and retain employees depends on 
numerous factors, including without limitation, its culture, compensation, 
the management and leadership of the company as well as its individual 
businesses, Citi™s presence in the particular market or region at issue and 
the professional opportunities it offers. The banking industry has and may 
continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, 
including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback 
requirements and special taxation. Moreover, given its continued focus 
on the emerging markets, Citi is often competing for qualified employees 
in these markets with entities that have a significantly greater presence in 
the region or are not subject to significant regulatory restrictions on the 
structure of incentive compensation. If Citi is unable to continue to attract 
and retain qualified employees for any reason, Citi™s performance, including 
its competitive position, the successful execution of its overall strategy and its 
results of operations could be negatively impacted.Incorrect Assumptions or Estimates in Citi™s Financial 
Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses 
in the Future, and Changes to Financial Accounting and 
Reporting Standards Could Have a Material Impact on 
How Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations.Citi is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its 
financial statements under U.S. GAAP, including determining credit loss 
reserves, reserves related to litigation and regulatory exposures and mortgage 
representation and warranty claims, DTAs and the fair value of certain 
assets and liabilities, among other items. If Citi™s assumptions or estimates 
underlying its financial statements are incorrect, Citi could experience 
unexpected losses, some of which could be significant.Moreover, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently 
reviewing or proposing changes to several financial accounting and reporting 

standards that govern key aspects of Citi™s financial statements, including 

those areas where Citi is required to make assumptions or estimates. For 
example, the FASB™s financial instruments project could, among other things, 

significantly change how Citi determines the impairment on financial 
instruments and accounts for hedges. The FASB has also proposed a new 

accounting model intended to require earlier recognition of credit losses. The 
accounting model would require a single ﬁexpected credit lossﬂ measurement 
objective for the recognition of credit losses for all financial instruments, 
replacing the multiple existing impairment models in U.S. GAAP, which 

generally require that a loss be ﬁincurredﬂ before it is recognized. For 
additional information on this proposed new accounting model, see Note 1 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.As a result of changes to financial accounting or reporting standards, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, Citi could be required to change certain of the assumptions or estimates it previously 
used in preparing its financial statements, which could negatively impact 
how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations 
generally. In addition, the FASB continues its convergence project with 

the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) pursuant to which 
U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
may be converged. Any transition to IFRS could further have a material 
impact on how Citi records and reports its financial results. For additional 
information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are 
used in preparing Citi™s financial statements, see ﬁSignificant Accounting 

Policies and Significant Estimatesﬂ below and Note 28 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Changes Could Occur in the Method for Determining LIBOR 
and It Is Unclear How Any Such Changes Could Affect the 
Value of Debt Securities and Other Financial Obligations 
Held or Issued by Citi That Are Linked to LIBOR, or How 
Such Changes Could Affect Citi™s Results of Operations or 
Financial Condition.As a result of concerns about the accuracy of the calculation of the daily 
LIBOR, which is currently overseen by the British Bankers™ Association (BBA), 
the BBA has taken steps to change the process for determining LIBOR by 
increasing the number of banks surveyed to set LIBOR and to strengthen 
the oversight of the process. In addition, recommendations relating to the 
setting and administration of LIBOR were put forth in September 2012, and 
the U.K. government has announced that it intends to incorporate these 
recommendations in new legislation.It is uncertain what changes, if any, may be required or made by the U.K. government or other governmental or regulatory authorities in the method 
for determining LIBOR. Accordingly, it is not certain whether or to what 

extent any such changes could have an adverse impact on the value of any 
LIBOR-linked debt securities issued by Citi, or any loans, derivatives and 
other financial obligations or extensions of credit for which Citi is an obligor. 

It is also not certain whether or to what extent any such changes would 
have an adverse impact on the value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, 
derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or 
due to Citi or on Citi™s overall financial condition or results of
 operations.71Citi May Incur Significant Losses If Its Risk Management Processes and Strategies Are Ineffective, and Concentration 
of Risk Increases the Potential for Such Losses.Citi™s independent risk management organization is structured so as to 
facilitate the management of the principal risks Citi assumes in conducting 
its activitiesŠcredit risk, market risk and operational riskŠacross three 
dimensions: businesses, regions and critical products. Credit risk is the 
potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or 
counterparty to honor its financial or contractual obligations. Market risk 
encompasses both liquidity risk and price risk. For a discussion of funding 
and liquidity risk, see ﬁCapital Resources and LiquidityŠFunding and 
Liquidityﬂ and ﬁRisk FactorsŠLiquidity Risksﬂ above. Price risk losses 
arise from fluctuations in the market value of trading and non-trading 
positions resulting from changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign 
exchange rates, equity and commodity prices and in their implied volatilities. 
Operational risk is the risk for loss resulting from inadequate or failed 
internal processes, systems or human factors, or from external events, and 
includes reputation and franchise risk associated with business practices 
or market conduct in which Citi is involved. For additional information on 
each of these areas of risk as well as risk management at Citi, including 
management review processes and structure, see ﬁManaging Global Riskﬂ 
below. Managing these risks is made especially challenging within a 
global and complex financial institution such as Citi, particularly given 
the complex and diverse financial markets and rapidly evolving market 
conditions in which Citi operates.Citi employs a broad and diversified set of risk management and mitigation processes and strategies, including the use of various risk models, 
in analyzing and monitoring these and other risk categories. However, these models, processes and strategies are inherently limited because they involve 
techniques, including the use of historical data in some circumstances, and 
judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in 
the markets in which it operates nor can it anticipate the specifics and timing 
of such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses if its risk management 
processes, strategies or models are ineffective in properly anticipating or 
managing these risks.In addition, concentrations of risk, particularly credit and market risk, can further increase the risk of significant losses. At December 31, 2012, Citi™s most significant concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government 
and its agencies, which primarily results from trading assets and investments 
issued by the U.S. government and its agencies. Citi also routinely executes 
a high volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange 
transactions with counterparties in the financial services sector, including 

banks, other financial institutions, insurance companies, investment banks 
and government and central banks. To the extent regulatory or market 

developments lead to an increased centralization of trading activity through 
particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, this could increase 
Citi™s concentration of risk in this sector. Concentrations of risk can limit, and 

have limited, the effectiveness of Citi™s hedging strategies and have caused 

Citi to incur significant losses, and they may do so again in the future. 72Citigroup believes that effective risk management is of primary importance to its overall operations. Accordingly, Citi™s risk management process has been 
designed to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal risks it assumes in 
conducting its activities. These include credit, market and operational risks, 
which are each discussed in more detail throughout this section.Citigroup™s risk management framework is designed to balance business 
ownership and accountability for risks with well-defined independent risk 
management oversight and responsibility. Citi™s risk management framework 

is based on the following principles established by Citi™s Chief Risk Officer:
a defined risk appetite, aligned with business strategy;accountability through a common framework to manage risks;risk decisions based on transparent, accurate and rigorous analytics;a common risk capital model to evaluate risks;expertise, stature, authority and independence of risk managers; andrisk managers empowered to make decisions and escalate issues.Significant focus has been placed on fostering a risk culture based on a policy of ﬁTaking Intelligent Risk with Shared Responsibility, without 
Forsaking Individual Accountabilityﬂ:ﬁTaking intelligent riskﬂ means that Citi must carefully identify, measure and aggregate risks, and it must establish risk tolerances based on a full 
understanding of ﬁtail risk.ﬂﬁShared responsibilityﬂ means that risk managers must own and 
influence business outcomes, including risk controls that act as a safety 
net for the business.ﬁIndividual accountabilityﬂ means that all individuals are ultimately 
responsible for identifying, understanding and managing risks.The Chief Risk Officer, with oversight from the Risk Management and 
Finance Committee of the Board of Directors, as well as the full Board of Directors, is responsible for:establishing core standards for the management, measurement and reporting of risk;identifying, assessing, communicating and monitoring risks on a 
company-wide basis;engaging with senior management on a frequent basis on material 
matters with respect to risk-taking activities in the businesses and related 
risk management processes; andensuring that the risk function has adequate independence, authority, 
expertise, staffing, technology and resources.The risk management organization is structured so as to facilitate the management of risk across three dimensions: businesses, regions and 
critical products.Each of Citi™s major business groups has a Business Chief Risk Officer who 
is the focal point for risk decisions, such as setting risk limits or approving 
transactions in the business. The majority of the staff in Citi™s independent 

risk management organization report to these Business Chief Risk Officers. 
There are also Chief Risk Officers for Citibank, N.A. and Citi Holdings.Regional Chief Risk Officers, appointed in each of Asia, EMEA and Latin America, are accountable for all the risks in their geographic areas 
and are the primary risk contacts for the regional business heads and 
local regulators.The positions of Product Chief Risk Officers are established for those risk areas of critical importance to Citigroup, currently real estate and structural 
market risk, as well as fundamental credit. The Product Chief Risk Officers 
are accountable for the risks within their specialty and focus on problem 
areas across businesses and regions. The Product Chief Risk Officers serve as 
a resource to the Chief Risk Officer, as well as to the Business and Regional 

Chief Risk Officers, to better enable the Business and Regional Chief Risk 
Officers to focus on the day-to-day management of risks and responsiveness 
to business flow.
Each of the Business, Regional and Product Chief Risk Officers report to Citi™s Chief Risk Officer, who reports to the Head of Franchise Risk and 

Strategy, a direct report to the Chief Executive Officer.
73While Citi™s major risk areas (i.e., credit, market and operational) are described individually on the following pages, these risks are also reviewed 
and managed in conjunction with one another and across the various 
businesses via Citi™s risk aggregation and stress testing processes.As noted above, independent risk management monitors and controls major risk exposures and concentrations across the organization. This 
requires the aggregation of risks, within and across businesses, as well 
as subjecting those risks to various stress scenarios in order to assess the 
potential economic impact they may have on Citigroup.Stress tests are in place across Citi™s entire portfolio, (i.e., trading, 
available-for-sale and accrual portfolios). These firm-wide stress reports 

measure the potential impact to Citi and its component businesses of 
changes in various types of key risk factors (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads, 
etc.). The reports also measure the potential impact of a number of historical 
and hypothetical forward-looking systemic stress scenarios, as developed 
internally by independent risk management. These firm-wide stress tests 
are produced on a monthly basis, and results are reviewed by senior 
management and the Board of Directors.Supplementing the stress testing described above, Citi independent risk management, working with input from the businesses and finance, provides 
periodic updates to senior management and the Board of Directors on 
significant potential areas of concern across Citigroup that can arise from 
risk concentrations, financial market participants, and other systemic issues. 
These areas of focus are intended to be forward-looking assessments of the 
potential economic impacts to Citi that may arise from these exposures.The stress-testing and focus-position exercises described above are a supplement to the standard limit-setting and risk-capital exercises described 
below, as these processes incorporate events in the marketplace and within 

Citi that impact the firm™s outlook on the form, magnitude, correlation and 

timing of identified risks that may arise. In addition to enhancing awareness 
and understanding of potential exposures, the results of these processes 
then serve as the starting point for developing risk management and 
mitigation strategies.In addition to Citi™s ongoing, internal stress testing described above, Citi 
is also required to perform stress testing on a periodic basis for a number of 
regulatory exercises, including the Federal Reserve Board™s Comprehensive 

Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and the OCC™s Dodd-Frank Act Stress 

Testing (DFAST). For 2013, these stress tests are required annually and mid-

year. These regulatory exercises typically prescribe certain defined scenarios 

under which stress testing should be conducted, and they also provide defined 
forms for the output of the results. For additional information, see ﬁRisk 
FactorsŠBusiness and Operational Risksﬂ above.Citi calculates and allocates risk capital across the company in order to 
consistently measure risk taking across business activities, and to assess risk-
reward relationships.Risk capital is defined as the amount of capital required to absorb potential unexpected economic losses resulting from extremely severe events 
over a one-year time period.ﬁEconomic lossesﬂ include losses that are reflected on Citi™s Consolidated Income Statement and fair value adjustments to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, as well as any further declines in value not captured 
on the Consolidated Income Statement.ﬁUnexpected lossesﬂ are the difference between potential extremely severe 
losses and Citigroup™s expected (average) loss over a one-year time period. ﬁExtremely severeﬂ is defined as potential loss at a 99.9% and a 99.97% 
confidence level, based on the distribution of observed events and 
scenario analysis.The drivers of economic losses are risks which, for Citi, are broadly categorized as credit risk, market risk and operational risk.Credit risk losses primarily result from a borrower™s or counterparty™s inability to meet its financial or contractual obligations.Market risk losses arise from fluctuations in the market value of trading 
and non-trading positions, including the changes in value resulting from 
fluctuations in rates.Operational risk losses result from inadequate or failed internal processes, 
systems or human factors, or from external events.Citi™s risk capital framework is reviewed and enhanced on a regular basis 
in light of market developments and evolving practices.74Credit risk is the potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or counterparty to honor its financial or contractual obligations. 
Credit risk arises in many of Citigroup™s business activities, including:wholesale and retail lending;capital markets derivative transactions;structured finance; andrepurchase agreements and reverse repurchase transactions.Credit risk also arises from settlement and clearing activities, when Citi transfers an asset in advance of receiving its counter-value, or advances funds 
to settle a transaction on behalf of a client. Concentration risk, within credit 
risk, is the risk associated with having credit exposure concentrated within a 
specific client, industry, region or other category.
Credit risk is one of the most significant risks Citi faces as an institution. As 
a result, Citi has a well-established framework in place for managing credit 

risk across all businesses. This includes a defined risk appetite, credit limits 
and credit policies, both at the business level as well as at the firm-wide 
level. Citi™s credit risk management also includes processes and policies 
with respect to problem recognition, including ﬁwatch lists,ﬂ portfolio 
review, updated risk ratings and classification triggers. With respect to Citi™s 
settlement and clearing activities, intra-day client usage of lines is closely 
monitored against limits, as well as against ﬁnormalﬂ usage patterns. To 
the extent a problem develops, Citi typically moves the client to a secured 
(collateralized) operating model. Generally, Citi™s intra-day settlement and 
clearing lines are uncommitted and cancellable at any time.To manage concentration of risk within credit risk, Citi has in place a 
concentration management framework consisting of industry limits, obligor 
limits and single-name triggers. In addition, as noted under ﬁManagement 
of Global RiskŠRisk Aggregation and Stress Testingﬂ above, independent 

risk management reviews concentration of risk across Citi™s regions and 

businesses to assist in managing this type of risk.Credit exposures are generally reported in notional terms for accrual loans, 
reflecting the value at which the loans are carried on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet. Credit exposure arising from capital markets activities is 
generally expressed as the current mark-to-market, net of margin, reflecting 
the net value owed to Citi by a given counterparty.The credit risk associated with these credit exposures is a function of the creditworthiness of the obligor, as well as the terms and conditions of 

the specific obligation. Citi assesses the credit risk associated with its credit 
exposures on a regular basis through its loan loss reserve process (see 
ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimatesﬂ and Notes 1 

and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements below), as well as through 
regular stress testing at the company-, business-, geography- and product-
levels. These stress-testing processes typically estimate potential incremental 
credit costs that would occur as a result of either downgrades in the credit 
quality, or defaults, of the obligors or counterparties.
75In millions of dollars 2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚˝˜˚˚˙
Consumer loans

$125,946


14,070
111,403
5,344
Š˛˜˛˛$256,763



$54,709


36,182
40,653
20,001
781
$152,326

Total Consumer loans
$409,089

(418)†˝˙˚˙
Consumer loans, net of unearned income
$408,671

Corporate loans

$26,985

18,159

24,705

32,446
1,410
$103,705


$82,939


14,958

6,485
37,739
605

1,159
$143,885

Total Corporate loans
$247,590

(797)
Corporate loans, net of unearned income
$246,793

Total loansŠnet of unearned income
$655,464


(25,455)
Total loansŠnet of unearned income and allowance for credit losses
$630,009

Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loansŠnet of unearned income (3)3.92%
Allowance for Consumer loan losses as a percentage of total Consumer loansŠnet of unearned income (3)5.57%
Allowance for Corporate loan losses as a percentage of total Corporate 
loansŠnet of unearned income (3)1.14%
˘‹˘›

˘
˘
˘

76In millions of dollars at year end
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚˝˜˚˚˙
Allowance for loan losses at beginning of year$30,115

Provision for loan losses
$10,761


87
˘$10,848

Gross credit lossesConsumer
$12,226


4,612
Corporate


59˛˙˜

21˜˙†

Š——
—
33—

68˛˛˛

154

305
$17,478

Credit recoveries

Consumer
$1,302


1,183
Corporate


17
—

19˜˜†
˛˛
Š——
——

Š——
——

43˙˝
˛˛˜
243
†
95

$2,902

Net credit losses
$10,910


3,666
Total
$14,576

$(932)

Allowance for loan losses at end of year $25,455


3.92%

$1,119

Total allowance for loans, leases and unfunded lending commitments
$26,574

$14,353


3.49%

$223


0.09%
Allowance for loan losses at end of period (6)$14,623

10,832
ﬂ
$25,455

Allowance by type
$22,679


2,776
ﬂ
$25,455


77˘

˘

˘
˘
˘


˘





˘








˘
‹
˘
Other liabilities

˘

˘‹


The following table details information on Citi™s allowance for loan losses, loans and coverage ratios as of December 31, 2012 and 2011:December 31, 2012
In billions of dollarsAllowance for loan lossesLoans, net of unearned incomeAllowance as a percentage of loans
 (1)North America$7.3
$112.0
6.5%North America
8.6125.46.9North America1.522.16.8
2.940.77.0
2.4108.52.2Total Consumer
$22.7
$408.7
5.6%Total Corporate
2.8246.81.1Total Citigroup
$25.5
$655.5
3.9%˘˜˚˛˛
In billions of dollars
North America

North America
North America

Total Consumer


Total Corporate
Total Citigroup


˘

˘
˘
North America

˘

North America

North America
˘
78The following pages include information on Citi™s ﬁNon-Accrual Loans and Assetsﬂ and ﬁRenegotiated Loans.ﬂ There is a certain amount of overlap 
among these categories. The following general summary provides a basic 
description of each category:Non-Accrual Loans and Assets:Corporate and Consumer (commercial market) non-accrual status is based on the determination that payment of interest or principal 
is doubtful.Consumer non-accrual status is based on aging, i.e., the borrower has 
fallen behind in payments. As a result of OCC guidance received in the third quarter of 2012, 
mortgage loans discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy are classified 
as non-accrual. This guidance added approximately $1.5 billion 
of Consumer loans to non-accrual status at September 30, 2012, of 
which approximately $1.3 billion was current. See also Note 1 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services are not 
included as, under industry standards, credit card loans accrue interest 
until such loans are charged off, which typically occurs at 180 days 
contractual delinquency.Renegotiated Loans:Both Corporate and Consumer loans whose terms have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR).Includes both accrual and non-accrual TDRs.Non-Accrual Loans and Assets
The table below summarizes Citigroup™s non-accrual loans as of the periods 
indicated. As summarized above, non-accrual loans are loans in which 
the borrower has fallen behind in interest payments or, for Corporate and 
Consumer (commercial market) loans, where Citi has determined that 
the payment of interest or principal is doubtful and therefore considered 
impaired. In situations where Citi reasonably expects that only a portion of 
the principal owed will ultimately be collected, all payments received are 
reflected as a reduction of principal and not as interest income.Corporate and Consumer (commercial market) non-accrual loans may still be current on interest payments but are considered non-accrual as 
Citi has determined that the future payment of interest and/or principal 
is doubtful. 79In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚˝˜˚˚˙
Citicorp$4,096

Citi Holdings7,433
Total non-accrual loans (NAL)
$11,529

Corporate non-accrual loans (1)North America$735

EMEA1,131
Latin America
128˜˜˝
Asia339˝˙˛
Total Corporate non-accrual loans
$2,333

$1,909

424
Total Corporate non-accrual loans
$2,333

Consumer non-accrual loans (1)˘North America˘$7,148

EMEA380
Latin America
1,285
Asia383
Total Consumer non-accrual loans 
(2)$9,196

$2,187

7,009
Total Consumer non-accrual loans 
(2)$9,196

˘
˘
˘
˘
North America
˘‹
North America˘

˘˘˘


80The table below summarizes Citigroup™s other real estate owned (OREO) assets as of the periods indicated. This represents the carrying value of all real estate property acquired by foreclosure or other legal proceedings when Citi has taken possession of the collateral.In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚˝˜˚˚˙
OREOCiticorp$47
˙˜†
Citi Holdings391
Corporate/Other2˛˛
Total OREO
$440

North America$299

EMEA99˛†˛˛˜˛††
Latin America
40˛†
Asia2˛
˜Total OREO
$440

Other repossessed assets$1
˛˜˙
˘Non-accrual assetsŠTotal Citigroup
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚˝˜˚˚˙

$2,333

9,196
$11,529

‚¡”‚440
1˛˜˙
$11,970


1.76%

0.64

221˜˚˝
Non-accrual assetsŠTotal Citicorp
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚˝˜˚˚˙
$4,096

‚¡”‚47˙˜†
N/A™ł‡™ł‡™ł‡™ł‡
$4,143


0.24%

357
Non-accrual assetsŠTotal Citi Holdings
˘˘$7,433

‚¡”‚391
N/A™ł‡™ł‡™ł‡™ł‡
$7,824


5.02%

146˛˝˚˛˜†˝˚
˘
North America
˘‹
North America

˘


™ł‡˘

81The following table presents Citi™s loans modified in TDRs.In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2012˘
˜˚˛˛Corporate renegotiated loans (1)
$180
˜˚†

7217447$716


$95


59Š˛˜3†$157

Total Corporate renegotiated loans
$873

Consumer renegotiated loans (4)(5)(6)(7)

$22,903

3,7181,088$27,709



$932

866˝˜˝904$2,702

Total Consumer renegotiated loans
$30,411

˘
˘˜˚˛˜˘˘˘‹˘
˘



‹˘




˘

‹˘

˘


˘

‹˘
˘

‹
˘
‹
˘

˘



In certain circumstances, Citigroup modifies certain of its Corporate loans involving a non-troubled borrower. These modifications are subject 

to Citi™s normal underwriting standards for new loans and are made in the 

normal course of business to match customers™ needs with available Citi 
products or programs (these modifications are not included in the table 
above). In other cases, loan modifications involve a troubled borrower to 
whom Citi may grant a concession (modification). Modifications involving 
troubled borrowers may include extension of maturity date, reduction 
in the stated interest rate, rescheduling of future cash flows, principal 
reductions or reduction or waiver of accrued interest or fees. See Note 16 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of such modifications.
In millions of dollarsIn U.S. 
officesIn non- U.S. 
offices2012 total

$3,123$965$4,088
1,4123881,800
Forgone interest revenue$1,711$577$2,288
˘

˘˘


82In millions of dollars at year end 2012
Due within 1 yearOver 1 year but within 5 yearsOver 5 yearsTotal
Corporate loan portfolio maturitiesIn U.S. offices
$12,181$9,684$5,120$26,985
8,1976,5173,44518,159

11,1528,866 4,68724,705
6375062671,410


14,64711,6446,15532,446
In offices outside the U.S.97,70933,68612,490143,885
Total corporate loans$144,523$70,903$32,164$247,590
Fixed/variable pricing of 
corporate loans with maturities due after one 
year (1)
$9,255$8,483


61,64823,681
Total
$70,903$32,164
˘


In millions of dollars at year end 2012
Due within 1 yearGreater than 1 year but within 5 yearsGreater than 5 yearsTotal
U.S. Consumer mortgage 
loan portfolio
$121$1,352$88,448$89,921

1,38418,10216,53936,025
Total
$1,505$19,454$104,987$125,946
Fixed/variable pricing of 
U.S. Consumer 

mortgage loans with 
maturities due after one year
$1,048$76,410


18,40628,577
Total
$19,454$104,987
83OverviewCiti™s North America Consumer mortgage portfolio consists of both 
residential first mortgages and home equity loans. As of December 31, 2012, 
Citi™s North America Consumer residential first mortgage portfolio totaled 
$88.2 billion, while the home equity loan portfolio was $37.2 billion. This 
compared to $95.4 billion and $43.5 billion of residential first mortgages 
and home equity loans as of December 31, 2011, respectively. Of the first 
mortgages at December 31, 2012, $57.7 billion is recorded in LCL within Citi Holdings, with the remaining $30.5 billion recorded in Citicorp. With respect 
to the home equity loan portfolio, $34.1 billion is recorded in LCL, and $3.1 billion is in Citicorp.Citi™s residential first mortgage portfolio included $8.5 billion of loans with FHA insurance or VA guarantees as of December 31, 2012, compared 

to $9.2 billion as of December 31, 2011. This portfolio consists of loans to 
low-to-moderate-income borrowers with lower FICO (Fair Isaac Corporation) 
scores and therefore generally has higher loan-to-value ratios (LTVs). Credit 

losses on FHA loans are borne by the sponsoring governmental agency, 

provided that the insurance terms have not been rescinded as a result of an 
origination defect. With respect to VA loans, the VA establishes a loan-level 

loss cap, beyond which Citi is liable for loss. While FHA and VA loans have 

high delinquency rates, given the insurance and guarantees, respectively, Citi 

has experienced negligible credit losses on these loans.In addition, as of December 31, 2012, Citi™s residential first mortgage 
portfolio included $1.5 billion of loans with LTVs above 80%, compared to 

$1.6 billion as of December 31, 2011, most of which are insured through 
mortgage insurance companies. As of December 31, 2012, the residential 
first mortgage portfolio also had $1.0 billion of loans subject to long-term 
standby commitments (LTSC) with U.S. government-sponsored entities 

(GSEs), compared to $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2011, for which Citi 
has limited exposure to credit losses. Citi™s home equity loan portfolio 

also included $0.4 billion of loans subject to LTSCs with GSEs (flat to 

December 31, 2011) for which Citi also has limited exposure to credit losses. These guarantees and commitments may be rescinded in the event of loan 
origination defects.Citi™s allowance for loan loss calculations takes into consideration the impact of these guarantees and commitments.Citi does not offer option-adjustable rate mortgages/negative amortizing mortgage products to its customers. As a result, option-adjustable rate 
mortgages/negative amortizing mortgages represent an insignificant portion 
of total balances, since they were acquired only incidentally as part of prior 
portfolio and business purchases.As of December 31, 2012, Citi™s 
North America residential first mortgage portfolio contained approximately $7.7 billion of adjustable rate mortgages 
that are currently required to make a payment only of accrued interest for 
the payment period, or an interest-only payment, compared to $8.6 billion 
at September 30, 2012 and $11.9 billion at December 31, 2011. The decline 
quarter over quarter resulted from conversions to amortizing loans of 
$471 million and repayments of $296 million, with the remainder primarily due to foreclosures and related activities and, to a lesser extent, asset sales. 
The decline year over year resulted from conversions to amortizing loans of 
$2.3 billion and repayments of $1.5 billion, with the remainder primarily 
due to foreclosures and related activities and, to a lesser extent, asset sales. 
Borrowers who are currently required to make an interest-only payment 
cannot select a lower payment that would negatively amortize the loan. 
Residential first mortgages with this payment feature are primarily to 
high-credit-quality borrowers who have on average significantly higher 
origination and refreshed FICO scores than other loans in the residential first 
mortgage portfolio, and have exhibited significantly lower 30+ delinquency 
rates as compared with residential first mortgages without this payment 
feature. As such, Citi does not believe the residential mortgage loans with this 
payment feature represent substantially higher risk in the portfolio.North America Consumer Mortgage Quarterly Credit TrendsŠDelinquencies and Net Credit LossesŠResidential First Mortgages
The following charts detail the quarterly trends in delinquencies and net 
credit losses for Citigroup™s residential first mortgage portfolio in North America. Approximately 65% of Citi™s residential first mortgage exposure arises from its portfolio within Citi HoldingsŠLCL. 844Q101Q112Q113Q114Q111Q122Q124Q123Q12
In billions of dollars˜˚˛˝
  4Q101Q112Q113Q114Q111Q122Q124Q123Q12
In billions of dollars˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝
˝
˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝
˝˘
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝‘
˝˙ˆˇ
˝˝š˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝š
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝†ˇ˝˝†˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝—ˇˇ˝˝
˝˝˝‘˙ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝‰˝‘˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝85
In billions of dollars˜˚
024
68104Q123Q122Q121Q124Q113Q112Q111Q114Q104.193.303.45
3.493.393.033.143.332.912.061.611.381.431.57
1.411.371.161.173.432.842.442.262.362.472.411.952.289.687.757.277.197.326.906.91
6.776.03˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝Ł‘—‘˝˝˝˝˝˝†˝Ł‘—‘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝Ł‘—‘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˙
˝˝˝˝˝˝Management actions, primarily asset sales and to a lesser extent modification programs, continued to be the primary drivers of the overall improved asset performance within Citi™s residential first mortgage portfolio 

in Citi Holdings during the periods presented above (excluding the impacts to 
net credit losses described in the notes to the tables above). Citi sold approximately $2.1 billion of delinquent residential first mortgages during 2012, including $0.6 billion during the fourth quarter of 
2012. Since the beginning of 2010, Citi has sold approximately $9.6 billion of 

delinquent residential mortgages. In addition, Citi modified approximately $0.9 billion and $0.3 billion of residential first mortgage loans during 2012 and in the fourth quarter of 
2012, respectively, including loan modifications pursuant to the national 

mortgage settlement. (For additional information on Citi™s residential first 

mortgage loan modifications, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.) Loan modifications under the national mortgage settlement 
have improved Citi™s 30+ days past due delinquencies by approximately 
$249 million as of the end of 2012. While re-defaults of previously modified 
mortgages under the HAMP and Citi Supplemental Modification (CSM) 
programs continued to track favorably versus expectations as of December
 31, 2012, Citi™s residential first mortgage portfolio continued to show some signs 

of the impact of re-defaults of previously modified mortgages. Citi believes that its ability to offset increasing delinquencies or net credit losses in its residential first mortgage portfolio, due to any deterioration of 
the underlying credit performance of these loans, re-defaults, the lengthening 
of the foreclosure process (see ﬁForeclosuresﬂ below) or otherwise, pursuant 
to asset sales or modifications could be limited going forward as a result of 
the lower remaining inventory of loans to sell or modify or due to lack of 
market demand for asset sales. Citi has taken these trends and uncertainties, 
including the potential for re-defaults, into consideration in determining its 
loan loss reserves. See ﬁNorth America Consumer MortgagesŠLoan Loss Reserve Coverageﬂ below. 
86North America Residential First MortgagesŠState Delinquency TrendsThe following tables set forth, for total Citigroup, the six states and/or regions with the highest concentration of Citi™s residential first mortgages as of 
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011.In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012
˝˝˝State (1)ENR (2)ENR Distribution90+DPD %% LTV > 
100%Refreshed FICO’ƒŠ˝’ƒŠ˝ıı˝ł˙œ
˝ž˝$21.128%2.1%23%730

11.8164.08723
˚€€‘™
4.055.531655
€‘‡‡€€
ﬂł3.858.143676
‡‡›
3.145.834694
€‡›‡
¡¥£ƒœ1.934.850702
‡™›
29.7395.415667
€˚
Total
$75.4
100%4.4%20%692
›˚‘‰‡›™
˝˙
˝˝˝˝˝˝˜˚˛˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝†˝Ł‘—‘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝ł˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝ł˙œ˝˝˝
As evidenced by the table above, Citi™s residential first mortgages 
portfolio is primarily concentrated in California and the New York/

New Jersey/Connecticut region (with New York as the largest of the three 

states). The improvement in refreshed LTV percentages at December 31, 

2012 was primarily the result of improvements in HPI across substantially 
all metropolitan statistical areas, thereby increasing values used in the 
determination of LTV. Additionally, asset sales of higher LTV loans during 

2012 further reduced the amount of loans with greater than 100% LTV. To a 

lesser extent, modification programs involving principal forgiveness further 
reduced the loans in this category during the year. With the continued 

lengthening of the foreclosure process (see discussion under ﬁForeclosuresﬂ 
below) in all of these states and regions during 2012, Citi expects it could 
experience less improvement in the 90+ days past due delinquency rate in 
certain of these states and/or regions in the future.ForeclosuresThe substantial majority of Citi™s foreclosure inventory consists of residential 
first mortgages. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 2.0% of Citi™s 
residential first mortgage portfolio was in Citi™s foreclosure inventory (based 
on the dollar amount of loans in foreclosure inventory as of such date, 
excluding loans that are guaranteed by U.S. government agencies and loans 
subject to LTSCs), compared to 2.1% as of September 30, 2012 and 2.4% as of 
December 31, 2011. The decline in Citi™s foreclosure inventory year-over-year and quarter-
over-quarter was due to fewer loans moving into the foreclosure inventory. 

This was due to several factors, including delays associated with initiating 
foreclosures due to increased state requirements for foreclosure filings (e.g., 
extensive documentation, processing and filing requirements as well as 
additional abilities for states to place holds on foreclosures), Citi™s continued 

asset sales of delinquent first mortgages and Citi™s continued efforts to work 

with borrowers pursuant to its loan modification programs, including under 
the national mortgage settlement. The foreclosure process remains stagnant across most states, driven primarily by the additional state requirements necessary to complete 
foreclosures referenced above as well as the continued lengthening of 
the foreclosure process. Citi continues to experience average timeframes 
to foreclosure that are two to three times longer than historical norms, 
although some improvement occurred in average timeframes in certain non-
judicial states (see below) in the fourth quarter of 2012. Extended foreclosure 
timelines and the low number of loans moving into the foreclosure 
inventory resulted in Citi™s aged foreclosure inventory (active foreclosures 

in process for two years or more) increasing to approximately 29% of Citi™s 

total foreclosure inventory as of December 31, 2012 (compared to 20% at 
September 30, 2012 and 10% at December 31, 2011). Extended foreclosure 
timelines continue to be more pronounced in the judicial states (i.e., states 
that require foreclosures to be processed via court approval), where Citi has a 
higher concentration of residential first mortgages in foreclosure (see ﬁNorth America Residential First MortgagesŠState Delinquency Trendsﬂ above). 
87Moreover, Citi™s servicing agreements associated with its sales of mortgage 
loans to the GSEs generally provide the GSEs with a high level of servicing oversight, including, among other things, timelines in which foreclosures 
or modification activities are to be completed. The agreements allow for the 
GSEs to take action against a servicer for violation of the timelines, which 
includes imposing compensatory fees. While the GSEs have not historically 
exercised their rights to impose compensatory fees, they have begun to do so 
on a regular basis. To date, the imposition of compensatory fees, as a result 

of the extended foreclosure timelines or otherwise, has not had a material 
impact on Citi.North America Consumer Mortgage Quarterly Credit TrendsŠDelinquencies and Net Credit LossesŠHome Equity Loans
Citi™s home equity loan portfolio consists of both fixed-rate home equity 
loans and loans extended under home equity lines of credit. Fixed-rate 
home equity loans are fully amortizing. Home equity lines of credit allow 
for amounts to be drawn for a period of time with the payment of interest 
only and then, at the end of the draw period, the then-outstanding amount 
is converted to an amortizing loan (the interest-only payment feature during 
the revolving period is standard for this product across the industry). Prior 
to June 2010, Citi™s originations of home equity lines of credit typically had 
a 10-year draw period. Beginning in June 2010, Citi™s originations of home 
equity lines of credit typically have a five-year draw period as Citi changed 
these terms to mitigate risk. After conversion, the home equity loans typically 
have a 20-year amortization period.As of December 31, 2012, Citi™s home equity loan portfolio of $37.2 billion 
included approximately $22.0 billion of home equity lines of credit that are 
still within their revolving period and have not commenced amortization, or 
ﬁreset.ﬂ During the period 2009Œ2012, approximately only 3% of Citi™s home 

equity loan portfolio commenced amortization; approximately 75% of Citi™s 

home equity loans extended under lines of credit as of December 31, 2012 
will contractually begin to amortize during the period 2015Œ2017. Based 
on this limited sample of home equity loans that has begun amortization, 
Citi has experienced marginally higher delinquency rates in its amortizing home equity loan portfolio as compared to its non-amortizing loan portfolio. 
However, these resets have occurred during a period of declining interest 

rates, which Citi believes has likely reduced the overall ﬁpayment shockﬂ to 
the borrower. Citi will continue to monitor this reset risk closely, particularly 

as it approaches 2015, and Citi will continue to consider the impact in 
determining its allowance for loan loss reserves accordingly. In addition, 

management is reviewing additional actions to offset potential reset risk, 
such as extending offers to non-amortizing home equity loan borrowers to 
convert the non-amortizing home equity loan to a fixed-rate loan. As of December 31, 2012, the percentage of U.S. home equity loans in a junior lien position where Citi also owned or serviced the first lien was 
approximately 30%. However, for all home equity loans (regardless of 

whether Citi owns or services the first lien), Citi manages its home equity 
loan account strategy through obtaining and reviewing refreshed credit 
bureau scores (which reflect the borrower™s performance on all of its debts, 

including a first lien, if any), refreshed LTV ratios and other borrower credit-

related information. Historically, the default and delinquency statistics for 

junior liens where Citi also owns or services the first lien have been better 
than for those where Citi does not own or service the first lien. Citi believes 
this is generally attributable to origination channels and better credit 
characteristics of the portfolio, including FICO and LTV, for those junior liens 

where Citi also owns or services the first lien.88The following charts detail the quarterly trends in delinquencies and net credit losses for Citi™s home equity loan portfolio in 
North America. The vast majority of Citi™s home equity loan exposure arises from its portfolio within Citi HoldingsŠ
LCL. 4Q101Q112Q113Q114Q111Q122Q124Q123Q12
In billions of dollars˜˚˛˝4Q101Q112Q113Q114Q111Q122Q124Q123Q12˜˚˛˝
In billions of dollars
˜€‘™˛ı˚‘‡ı
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝‘
˙ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝‰˝‘˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝¢
˝˝˝˝˝Ł‘—‘˝˝˝˝89
In billions of dollars˜˚
0.00.51.0
1.52.02.53.04Q123Q122Q121Q124Q113Q112Q111Q114Q101.190.970.900.910.860.740.720.690.630.980.860.720.710.680.580.540.490.470.330.320.320.30
0.320.330.330.350.352.502.151.931.921.861.651.591.521.45˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝Ł‘—‘˝˝˝˝˝˝†˝Ł‘—‘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝Ł‘—‘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˙
˝˝˝˝˝˝As evidenced by the tables above, home equity loan delinquencies improved during 2012, although the rate of improvement has slowed. Given the lack of a market in which to sell delinquent home equity loans, 
as well as the relatively smaller number of home equity loan modifications 
and modification programs (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements), Citi™s ability to offset increased delinquencies and net credit 

losses in its home equity loan portfolio in Citi Holdings, whether pursuant to deterioration of the underlying credit performance of these loans or 
otherwise, is more limited as compared to residential first mortgages as 
discussed above. Accordingly, Citi could begin to experience increased 

delinquencies and thus increased net credit losses in this portfolio going 
forward. Citi has taken these trends and uncertainties into consideration 
in determining its loan loss reserves. See ﬁNorth America Consumer 
MortgagesŠLoan Loss Reserve Coverageﬂ below.
North America Home Equity LoansŠState Delinquency Trends
The following tables set forth, for total Citigroup, the six states and/or regions with the highest concentration of Citi™s home equity loans as of December 31, 
2012 and December 31, 2011.In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012
˝˝˝State (1)ENR (2)ENR Distribution90+DPD %% CLTV > 
100% (3)Refreshed FICO’ƒŠ˝’ƒŠ˝ıı˝˙œ
˝ž˝˝$9.7
28%2.0%40%723

8.2232.320715
˚™
ﬂł2.473.458698
‰‡™‡™›
1.442.155708
˚‘‡€
1.232.255679
€‡‡‡‰›
¡¥£ƒœ0.823.170709
€‘˚
11.5332.237695
€‡
Total
$35.2
100%2.3%37%704

˝˙
˝˝˝˝˝˝˜˚˛˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝ł˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝ł˙œ˝˝˝

˝˝˝˙œ˛˝˘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝90Similar to residential first mortgages discussed above, the general improvement in refreshed CLTV percentages at December 31, 2012 was 
primarily the result of improvements in HPI across substantially all 
metropolitan statistical areas, thereby increasing values used in the 
determination of CLTV. For the reasons described under ﬁ
North America 
Consumer Mortgage Quarterly Credit TrendsŠDelinquencies and Net 

Credit LossesŠHome Equity Loansﬂ above, Citi has experienced, and could 
continue to experience, increased delinquencies and thus increased net credit 
losses in certain of these states and/or regions going forward.Under the national mortgage settlement, entered into by Citi and other 
financial institutions in February 2012, Citi is required to provide 
(i) customer relief in the form of loan modifications for delinquent borrowers, including principal reductions, and other loss mitigation 
activities to be completed over three years, with a required settlement value 
of $1.4 billion; and (ii) refinancing concessions to enable current borrowers 
whose properties are worth less than the balance of their loans to reduce 
their interest rates, also to be completed over three years, with a required 
settlement value of $378 million. Citi commenced loan modifications 
under the settlement, including principal reductions, in March 2012 and 
commenced the refinancing process in June 2012. If Citi does not provide the required amount of financial relief in the form of loan modifications and other loss mitigation activities for delinquent 
borrowers or refinancing concessions under the national mortgage 
settlement, Citi will be required to make cash payments. Citi is required to 
complete 75% of its required relief by March 1, 2014. Failure to meet 100% 
of the commitment by March 1, 2015 will result in Citi paying an amount 
equal to 125% of the shortfall. Failure to meet the two-year commitment 
noted above and then failure to meet the three-year commitment will result 
in an amount equal to 140% of the three-year shortfall. Citi continues to 
believe that its obligations will be fully met in the form of financial relief to 
homeowners; no cash payments are currently expected. Loan Modifications/Loss Mitigation for Delinquent BorrowersAll of the loan modifications for delinquent borrowers receiving relief 
toward the $1.4 billion in settlement value are either currently accounted 
for as TDRs or will become TDRs at the time of modification. The loan 
modifications have been, and will continue to be, primarily performed 
under the HAMP and Citi™s CSM loan modification programs (see Note 16 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The loss mitigation activities 
include short sales for residential first mortgages and home equity loans, 
extinguishments and other loss mitigation activities. Based on the nature of 
the loss mitigation activities (e.g., short sales and extinguishments), these 
activities have not impacted, nor are they expected to have an incremental 
impact on, Citi™s TDRs. Through December 31, 2012, Citi has assisted approximately 34,000 customers under the loan-modification and other loss-mitigation activities 
provisions of the national mortgage settlement, resulting in an aggregate 
principal reduction of approximately $2.4 billion that is potentially eligible 
for inclusion in the settlement value. Net credit losses of approximately 
$500 million have been incurred to date relating to the loan modifications under the national mortgage settlement, all of which were offset by loan 
loss reserve releases (including approximately $370 million of incremental 
charge-offs related to anticipated forgiveness of principal in connection 
with the national mortgage settlement in the first quarter). Citi currently 
anticipates an impact to net credit losses associated with the national 
mortgage settlement to continue into the first half of 2013. Citi continues to 
believe that its loan loss reserves as of December 31, 2012 are sufficient to 
cover the required customer relief to delinquent borrowers under the national 
mortgage settlement. Like other financial institutions party to the national mortgage settlement, Citi does not receive dollar-for-dollar settlement value for the 
relief it provides under the national mortgage settlement in all cases. As 
a result, Citi anticipates that the relief provided will be higher than the 
settlement value. Refinancing Concessions for Current BorrowersThe refinancing concessions are to be offered to residential first mortgage 
borrowers whose properties are worth less than the value of their loans, who 
have been current in the prior 12 months, who have not had a modification, 
bankruptcy or foreclosure proceeding during the prior 24 months, and whose 
loans have a current interest rate greater than 5.25%. As of December 31, 
2012, Citi has provided refinance concessions under the national mortgage 
settlement to approximately 13,000 customers holding loans with a total 
unpaid principal balance of $2.3 billion, thus reducing their interest rate to 
5.25% for the remaining life of the loan. Citi accounts for the refinancing concessions under the settlement based on whether the particular borrower is determined to be experiencing 
financial difficulty based on certain underwriting criteria. When a 
refinancing concession is granted to a borrower who is experiencing 
financial difficulty, the loan is accounted for as a TDR. Otherwise, the impact 

of the refinancing concessions is recognized over a period of years in the 
form of lower interest income. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 
5,000 customers holding loans with a total unpaid principal balance of 
$741 million and who were provided refinance concessions have been accounted for as TDRs. These refinancing concessions have not had a 
material impact on the fair value of the modified mortgage loans.91As noted above, if the modified loan under the refinancing is not accounted for as a TDR, the impact to Citi of the refinancing concession will be recognized over a period of years in the form of lower interest income. 
Citi estimates the forgone future interest income as a result of the refinance 
concessions under the national mortgage settlement was approximately 
$20 million during 2012, of which $13 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012. Citi estimates the total amount of expected forgone future 
interest income could be approximately $50 million annually. However, this 
estimate could change based on the response rate of borrowers who qualify 
and the subsequent borrower payment behavior. 
On January 7, 2013, Citi, along with other major mortgage servicers 
operating under consent orders dated April 13, 2011 with the Federal 
Reserve Board and the OCC, entered into a settlement agreement with 
those regulators to modify the requirements of the independent foreclosure 
review mandated by the consent orders. Under the settlement, Citi agreed 
to pay approximately $305 million into a qualified settlement fund and 
offer $487 million of mortgage assistance to borrowers in accordance with 
agreed criteria. Upon completion of Citi™s payment and mortgage assistance 
obligations under the agreement, the Federal Reserve Board and the OCC 
have agreed to deem the requirements of the independent foreclosure 
review under the consent orders satisfied. As a result of the settlement, Citi 
recorded a $305 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2012. Citi believes 
that its loan loss reserves as of December 31, 2012 are sufficient to cover any 
mortgage assistance under the settlement and there will be no incremental 
financial impact.Consumer Mortgage FICO and LTV
The following charts detail the quarterly trends of the unpaid principal 
balances for Citi™s residential first mortgage and home equity loan portfolios 
by risk segment (FICO and LTV) and the 90+ day delinquency rates for 
those risk segments. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2012, residential 
first mortgages had $7.1 billion of balances with refreshed FICO < 660 and 
refreshed LTV > 100%. Approximately 17.5% of these loans in this segment 
were over 90+ days past due.0204060801004Q123Q122Q121Q124Q1111.211.39.97.87.1
17.816.8
17.017.917.513.213.911.58.47.839.638.840.642.843.0Residential First Mortgages In billions of dollarsFICO < 660, LTV > 100%
FICO < 660, LTV 
˜ 100%
FICO 
˚ 660, LTV > 100%
FICO ˚ 660, LTV ˜ 100%  ˝˝˝€‚˚˚
˝˝ŒŽŒııııı
˝˝˝ł˙œ˝˝˚‡‰
˝˝˝ł˙œ˝ž˝˚‡€˚‘‡ı˚‘€ı˚‘€ı
˝©˝˝ł˙œ˝˝˚š™˚‡˚š‰‰‰˚š‰‰‡
˝©˝˝ł˙œ˝ž˝˚›‘€ı
02040604Q123Q122Q121Q124Q115.45.44.83.93.75.04.64.65.04.812.813.0
12.09.79.4
17.916.616.917.917.3Home Equity Loans In billions of dollarsFICO < 660, CLTV > 100%
FICO < 660, CLTV 
˜ 100%
FICO 
˚ 660, CLTV > 100%
FICO ˚ 660, CLTV ˜ 100%  ˝˝˝€‚˚˚
˝˝ŒŽŒııııı
˝˝˝˙œ˝˝˚›˚™
˝˝˝˙œ˝ž˝˚™
˝©˝˝˙œ˝˝‰‘‡ı‰‘‡ı
˝©˝˝˙œ˝ž˝™‘™ı™‘‡ı

ª˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝†ˇ˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝ª˝˝˙
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝†˝Ł‘—‘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝łª˝˝˝˝ª˝˝˙
˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝ł˙œ˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝92Citi™s residential first mortgages with an LTV above 100% has declined by 
39% since year end 2011, and high LTV loans with FICO scores of less than 
660 decreased by 37% to $7.1 billion. The residential first mortgage portfolio 
has migrated to a higher FICO and lower LTV distribution as a result of asset 

sales, home price appreciation and principal forgiveness. Loans 90+ days 
past due have declined by approximately 32%, or $0.6 billion, year-over-year 

to approximately $1.2 billion. The decline in 90+ days past due residential 
mortgages with refreshed FICO scores of less than 660 as well as higher LTVs 

primarily can be attributed to asset sales and modification programs, offset 
by the lengthening of the foreclosure process, as discussed in the sections 
above. Citi™s home equity loans with a CLTV above 100% have declined by 

28% since year end 2011, and high CLTV loans with FICO scores of less than 

660 decreased by 31% to approximately $3.7 billion. The CLTV improvement 

was primarily the result of home price appreciation.  Residential first mortgages historically have experienced higher delinquency rates, as compared to home equity loans, despite the fact that 

home equity loans are typically in junior lien positions and residential first 
mortgages are typically in a first lien position. Citi believes this difference is 
primarily because residential first mortgages are written down to collateral 
value less cost to sell at 180 days past due and remain in the delinquency 
population until full disposition through sale, repayment or foreclosure; 
however, home equity loans are generally fully charged off at 180 days 

past due and thus removed from the delinquency calculation. In addition, 
due to the longer timelines to foreclose on a residential first mortgage 
(see ﬁForeclosuresﬂ above), these loans tend to remain in the delinquency 
statistics for a longer period and, consequently, the 90 days or more 

delinquencies of these loans remain higher.
To minimize credit and liquidity risk, Citi sells most of the conforming 
mortgage loans it originates but retains the servicing rights. These sale 
transactions create an intangible asset referred to as mortgage servicing 
rights (MSRs), which are recorded at fair value on Citi™s Consolidated 
Balance Sheet. The fair value of MSRs is primarily affected by changes in 
prepayments of mortgages that result from shifts in mortgage interest rates. 
Specifically, the fair value of MSRs declines with increased prepayments, 
and declines in or continued low interest rates tend to lead to increased 
prepayments. In managing this risk, Citi economically hedges a significant 
portion of the value of its MSRs through the use of interest rate derivative 
contracts, forward purchase and sale commitments of mortgage-backed 
securities and purchased securities classified as trading account assets.Citi™s MSRs totaled $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2012, compared 
to $1.9 billion and $2.6 billion at September 30, 2012 and December 31, 
2011, respectively. The decrease in the value of Citi™s MSRs from year-end 

2011 primarily reflected the impact from lower interest rates in addition to 
amortization as well as an increase in servicing costs related to the servicing 
of the loans remaining in Citi Holdings. As the mix of loans remaining in 
Citi Holdings has gradually shifted to more delinquent, non-performing 
loans, the cost for servicing those loans has increased. As of December 31, 
2012, approximately $1.3 billion of MSRs were specific to Citicorp, with the 
remainder to Citi Holdings. For additional information on Citi™s MSRs, see Note 22 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
Overview
In connection with Citi™s sales of residential mortgage loans to the U.S. 
government-sponsored entities (GSEs) and, in most cases, other mortgage 
loan sales and private-label securitizations, Citi makes representations 
and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements. The specific 
representations and warranties made by Citi in any particular transaction 
depend on, among other things, the nature of the transaction and the 
requirements of the investor (e.g., whole loan sale to the GSEs versus loans 
sold through securitization transactions), as well as the credit quality of the 
loan (e.g., prime, Alt-A or subprime). These sales expose Citi to potential claims for breaches of its representations and warranties. In the event of a breach of its representations 
and warranties, Citi could be required either to repurchase the mortgage 
loans with the identified defects (generally at unpaid principal balance plus 
accrued interest) or to indemnify (ﬁmake wholeﬂ) the investors for their 
losses on these loans. To the extent Citi made representation and warranties 

on loans it purchased from third-party sellers that remain financially viable, 
Citi may have the right to seek recovery of repurchase losses or make whole 
payments from the third party based on representations and warranties made 
by the third party to Citi (a ﬁback-to-backﬂ claim). 93Whole Loan Sales (principally reflected in Citi HoldingsŠLocal Consumer Lending)
Citi is exposed to representation and warranty repurchase claims primarily 
as a result of its whole loan sales to the GSEs and, to a lesser extent, private 
investors through its Consumer business in CitiMortgage. When selling a 
loan to these investors, Citi makes various representations and warranties to, 
among other things, the following:Citi™s ownership of the loan;the validity of the lien securing the loan;the absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing the loan;the effectiveness of title insurance on the property securing the loan;the process used in selecting the loans for inclusion in a transaction;the loan™s compliance with any applicable loan criteria established by the 
buyer; andthe loan™s compliance with applicable local, state and federal laws.To date, the majority of Citi™s repurchases have been due to GSE 
repurchase claims and relates to loans originated from 2006 through 2008, which also represent the vintages with the highest loss severity. An 

insignificant percentage of repurchases and make-whole payments have 
been from vintages pre-2006 and post-2008. Citi attributes this to better credit 
performance of these vintages and to the enhanced underwriting standards 
implemented beginning in the second half of 2008. During the period 2006 through 2008, Citi sold a total of approximately $321 billion of whole loans, substantially all to the GSEs (this amount 
has not been adjusted for subsequent borrower repayments of principal, 
defaults or repurchase activity to date). The vast majority of these loans 
were either originated by Citi or purchased from third-party sellers that Citi 
believes would be unlikely to honor back-to-back claims because they are 
in bankruptcy, liquidation or financial distress and, thus, are no longer 

financially viable. As discussed below, however, Citi™s repurchase reserve 

takes into account estimated reimbursements, if any, to be received from 

third-party sellers. Private-Label Residential Mortgage Securitizations
Citi is also exposed to representation and warranty repurchase claims as a 
result of mortgage loans sold through private-label residential mortgage 
securitizations. These representations were generally made or assigned to the 
issuing trust and related to, among other things, the following:the absence of fraud on the part of the borrower, the seller or any appraiser, broker or other party involved in the origination of the 
loan (sometimes wholly or partially limited to the knowledge of the 
representation provider);whether the property securing the loan was occupied by the borrower as 
his or her principal residence;the loan™s compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws;whether the loan was originated in conformity with the originator™s 
underwriting guidelines; anddetailed data concerning the loans that were included on the mortgage 
loan schedule.During the period 2005 through 2008, Citi sold loans into and sponsored 
private-label securitizations through both its Consumer business in 
CitiMortgage and its legacy S&B business. Citi sold approximately $91 billion 
of mortgage loans through private-label securitizations during this period. CitiMortgage (principally reflected in Citi HoldingsŠLocal Consumer Lending)During the period 2005 through 2008, Citi sold approximately $24.6 billion of loans through private-label mortgage securitization trusts via its 
Consumer business in CitiMortgage. These $24.6 billion of securitization 
trusts were composed of approximately $15.4 billion in prime trusts and 
$9.2 billion in Alt-A trusts, each as classified at issuance. As of December 31, 2012, approximately $8.7 billion of the $24.6 billion remained outstanding as a result of repayments of approximately 
$14.6 billion and cumulative losses (incurred by the issuing trusts) of 
approximately $1.3 billion. The remaining outstanding amount is composed 
of approximately $4.4 billion in prime trusts and approximately $4.3 billion in Alt-A trusts, as classified at issuance. As of December 31, 2012, the 
remaining outstanding amount had a 90 days or more delinquency rate 
in the aggregate of approximately 15.5%. Similar to the whole loan sales discussed above, the vast majority of these loans either were originated by 
Citi or purchased from third-party sellers that Citi believes would be unlikely 
to honor back-to-back claims because they are no longer financially viable. 
Citi™s repurchase reserve takes into account estimated reimbursements, if any, 

to be received from third-party sellers. 94Legacy S&B Securitizations (principally reflected in Citi HoldingsŠSpecial Asset Pool) 
During the period 2005 through 2008, S&B, through its legacy business, 
sold approximately $66.4 billion of loans through private-label mortgage 
securitization trusts. These $66.4 billion of securitization trusts were 
composed of approximately $15.4 billion in prime trusts, $12.4 billion 
in Alt-A trusts and $38.6 billion in subprime trusts, each as classified 
at issuance. As of December 31, 2012, approximately $19.9 billion of the $66.4 billion remained outstanding as a result of repayments of approximately 
$36.0 billion and cumulative losses (incurred by the issuing trusts) of 
approximately $10.5 billion (of which approximately $7.9 billion related to 
loans in subprime trusts). The remaining outstanding amount is composed 
of approximately $5.1 billion in prime trusts, $4.2 billion in Alt-A trusts and 
$10.6 billion in subprime trusts, as classified at issuance. As of December 31, 
2012, the remaining outstanding amount had a 90 days or more delinquency 
rate of approximately 26.1%. The mortgages included in the S&B legacy securitizations were primarily purchased from third-party sellers. In connection with these securitization 
transactions, representations and warranties relating to the mortgages were 
made by Citi, third-party sellers or both. As of December 31, 2012, where Citi 
made representations and warranties and received similar representations 
and warranties from third-party sellers, Citi believes that for the majority of 
the securitizations backed by prime and Alt-A loan collateral, if Citi received a 
repurchase claim for those loans, it would have a back-to-back claim against 
financially viable sellers. The vast majority of the subprime collateral was purchased from third-party sellers that Citi believes would be unlikely to honor back-to-back claims 
because they are no longer financially viable. Citi™s repurchase reserve, to 

the extent applicable, takes into account estimated reimbursements to be 
received, if any, from third-party sellers.
Repurchase ReserveCiti has recorded a mortgage repurchase reserve (referred to as the 
repurchase reserve) for its potential repurchase or make-whole liability 
regarding representation and warranty claims. Citi™s repurchase reserve 
primarily relates to whole loan sales to the GSEs and is thus calculated 
primarily based on Citi™s historical repurchase activity with the GSEs. 
The repurchase reserve relating to Citi™s whole loan sales, and changes in 
estimate with respect thereto, are generally recorded in Citi HoldingsŠ
Local Consumer Lending. The repurchase reserve relating to private-label 
securitizations, and changes in estimate with respect thereto, are recorded in 
Citi HoldingsŠSpecial Asset Pool.Repurchase ReserveŠWhole Loan Sales
To date, issues related to (i) misrepresentation of facts by either the borrower 
or a third party (e.g., income, employment, debts, etc.), (ii) appraisal 
issues (e.g., an error or misrepresentation of value), and (iii) program 
requirements (e.g., a loan that does not meet investor guidelines, such as 
contractual interest rate) have been the primary drivers of Citi™s repurchases 
and make-whole payments to the GSEs. The type of defect that results in a 
repurchase or make-whole payment has varied and will likely continue to 
vary over time. There has not been a meaningful difference in Citi™s incurred 
or estimated loss for any particular type of defect.The repurchase reserve is based on various assumptions which, as referenced above, are primarily based on Citi™s historical repurchase activity 

with the GSEs. As of December 31, 2012, the most significant assumptions 
used to calculate the reserve levels are the: (i) probability of a claim based on 
correlation between loan characteristics and repurchase claims; (ii) claims 
appeal success rates; and (iii) estimated loss per repurchase or make-whole 
payment. In addition, Citi considers reimbursements estimated to be received 
from third-party sellers, which are generally based on Citi™s analysis of its 

most recent collection trends and the financial solvency or viability of the 
third-party sellers, in estimating its repurchase reserve. During 2012, Citi recorded an additional reserve of $706 million (of which $164 million was in the fourth quarter of 2012) relating to its whole 
loan sales repurchase exposure. The change in estimate in fourth quarter 
and full year 2012 primarily resulted from (i) a continued heightened 
focus by the GSEs resulting in increasing estimates of repurchase claims, 
and (ii) increasing trends in repurchase claims, repurchases/make-whole payments, and default rates, especially for higher risk loans associated with 
servicing sold to a third party in the fourth quarter of 2010. These increases 
were partially offset by an improvement in expected recoveries from third-
party sellers. Citi™s claims appeal success rate remained stable during 2012, with approximately half of repurchase claims successfully appealed and thus 
resulting in no loss to Citi. Although the GSEs continued to exhibit elevated 
loan documentation requests during 2012, which could ultimately lead to 
higher claims and repurchases in future periods, Citi continues to believe 
the activity in and change in estimate relating to its repurchase reserve will 
remain volatile in the near term. As referenced above, the repurchase reserve estimation process for potential whole loan representation and warranty claims relies on various 
assumptions that involve numerous estimates and judgments, including 
with respect to certain future events, and thus entails inherent uncertainty. 

Citi estimates that the range of reasonably possible loss for whole loan sale 
representation and warranty claims in excess of amounts accrued as of 
December 31, 2012 could be up to $0.6 billion. This estimate was derived 
by modifying the key assumptions discussed above to reflect management™s 

judgment regarding reasonably possible adverse changes to those 
assumptions. Citi™s estimate of reasonably possible loss is based on currently 

available information, significant judgment and numerous assumptions that 
are subject to change.95Repurchase ReserveŠPrivate-Label Securitizations Investors in private-label securitizations may seek recovery for alleged 
breaches of representations and warranties, as well as losses caused by 
non-performing loans more generally, through repurchase claims or 
through litigation premised on a variety of legal theories. Citi considers 
litigation relating to private-label securitizations as part of its contingencies 
analysis. For additional information, see Note 28 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. During 2012, Citi continued to receive significant levels of inquiries and demands for loan files, as well as requests to toll (extend) the applicable 
statutes of limitation for, among others, representation and warranty claims relating to its private-label securitizations. These inquiries, demands and 
requests have come from trustees of securitization trusts and others. Citi 
also has received repurchase claims for breaches of representations and 
warranties related to private-label securitizations. These claims have been 
received at an unpredictable rate, although the number of claims increased 
substantially during 2012 and is expected to remain elevated, particularly 
given the level of inquiries, demands and requests noted above. Of the repurchase claims received, Citi believes some are based on a review of the underlying loan files, while others are not based on such a review. In 

either case, upon receipt of a claim, Citi typically requests that it be provided with the underlying detail supporting the claim; however, to date, Citi has 

received little or no response to these requests for information. As a result, 
the vast majority of the repurchase claims received on Citi™s private-label 

securitizations remain unresolved (see the ﬁUnresolved Claimsﬂ table below). 
Citi expects unresolved repurchase claims for private-label securitizations to 

continue to increase because new claims and requests for loan files continue 
to be received, while there has been little progress to date in resolving these 
repurchase claims. Citi cannot reasonably estimate probable losses from future repurchase claims for private-label securitizations because the claims to date have been 
received at an unpredictable rate, the factual basis for those claims is unclear, 

and very few such claims have been resolved. Rather, at the present time, Citi 

records reserves related to private-label securitizations repurchase claims 
based on estimated losses arising from those claims received that appear to 
be based on a review of the underlying loan files. During 2012, Citi recorded 
a reserve of $244 million (of which $9 million was in the fourth quarter of 
2012) relating to such claims. The estimation reflected in this reserve is based 

on currently available information and relies on various assumptions that 
involve numerous estimates and judgments that are inherently uncertain 
and subject to change. If actual experiences differ from Citi™s assumptions, 

future provisions may differ substantially from Citi™s current reserve.
The table below sets forth the activity in the repurchase reserve for each of the quarterly periods below:Three Months EndedIn millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012September 30, 2012June 30, 2012March 31, 2012
˝˝˝˝˝$1,516$1,476$1,376
$1,188˝˘˝˝˝˜˚˛67 46‰˝˝˝173200 242335
(130)(167)(146)(153)Balance, end of period
$1,565
$1,516$1,476
$1,376˜˚˛˝Šˇ˘
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝The following table sets forth the unpaid principal balance of loans repurchased due to representation and warranty claims during each of the quarterly periods below:Three Months EndedIn millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012September 30, 2012June 30, 2012March 31, 2012
˝˝˝˝˝˜˚˛$157$105$202$101˜˚˛˝
˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝In addition to the amounts set forth in the table above, Citi recorded make-whole payments of $92 million, $118 million, $91 million, 
$107 million and $148 million for the quarterly periods ended December 31, 2012, September 30, 2012, June 30, 2012, March 31, 2012 and December 31, 
2011, respectively. Nearly all of these make-whole payments were to the GSEs.96Representations and Warranty Claims by ClaimantThe following table sets forth the original principal balance of representation and warranty claims by claimant, as well as the original principal balance of 
unresolved claims by claimant, for each of the quarterly periods below:Claims during the three months endedIn millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012September 30, 2012June 30, 2012March 31, 2012
˝˝˝˝˝˜˚˛$769
$863$860
$755
‡™™

˝2943626536
˝˝18219023Total
$1,081
$887$1,576
$1,314
‰€‰
Unresolved claims at 
In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012September 30, 2012June 30, 2012March 31, 2012
˝˝˝˝˝˜˚˛$1,224
$1,371$1,263
$1,222


˝1,7171,4231,422797
˝˝54158Total
$2,946
$2,798$2,700
$2,027

˜˚˛˝
˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˝˝˝˝˝†ˇ˝˝˝˝˝¬—’˝˝˝‘˝˙
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝¬—’˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝For additional information regarding Citi™s potential mortgage repurchase 
liability, see Notes 27 and 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements below.
97OverviewCiti™s North America cards portfolio primarily consists of its Citi-branded 
cards and Citi retail services portfolios in Citicorp. As of December 31, 2012, 
the Citicorp Citi-branded cards portfolio totaled approximately $73 billion, 
while the Citi retail services portfolio was approximately $39 billion.See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Citi™s 
North America cards modifications.North America Cards Quarterly Credit TrendsŠDelinquencies and Net 
Credit Losses
The following charts detail the quarterly trends in delinquencies and net 
credit losses for Citigroup™s North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail 
services portfolios in Citicorp. Assuming no significant downturn in the 
economic environment, Citi believes the improvement in credit trends in its 
card portfolios had largely stabilized as of the end of 2012, and delinquencies 

and net credit losses in these portfolios could begin to increase in line with 
portfolio growth. 4Q101Q112Q113Q114Q111Q122Q124Q123Q12˜˚˛˝
In billions of dollars4Q101Q112Q113Q114Q111Q122Q124Q123Q12˜˚˛˝
In billions of dollars98Total 
loans (1)90+ days past due (2)30Œ89 days past due (2)December 31,December 31,December 31,In millions of dollars, except EOP loan amounts in billions and ratios
20122012
˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Citicorp (3)(4)˝˙ˆˇ˘
$295.4$3,082

$3,509


1.05%
1.19%
Retail banking˝˙ˆˇ˘
$145.8$880

$1,112


0.61%
0.77%
North America42.7280

223˜˛˜

0.68%
0.54%
EMEA5.148

77

0.94%
1.51%
Latin America
28.3324

353

1.14%
1.25%
Asia69.7228
˜˜˜
459

0.33%
0.66%
Citi-branded cards˝˙ˆˇ˘
$149.6$2,202

$2,397


1.47%
1.60%
North AmericaŠ72.9786

771

1.08%
1.06%
North AmericaŠ
38.6721

789

1.87%
2.04%
EMEA2.948

63

1.66%
2.17%
Latin America
14.8413

432

2.79%
2.92%
Asia20.4234

342

1.15%
1.68%
Citi HoldingsŠLocal Consumer Lending (5)(6)˝˙ˆˇ˘
$112.7$4,611

$4,228


4.42%
4.05%

7.6345

393

4.54%
5.17%
North America105.14,266

3,835

4.41%
3.96%
Total Citigroup (excluding 
Special Asset Pool
)$408.1$7,693

$7,737


1.93%
1.94%“˛‘˝
“˜‘


North AmericaNorth America



North America Regional Consumer Banking 


•
•


North America LCL



•

•


North America
•
99Average 
loans (1)Net credit losses (2)In millions of dollars, except average loan amounts in billions and ratios
20122012
˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Citicorp˝˙ˆˇ˘
$286.4$8,452


2.95%
Retail banking˝˙ˆˇ˘
$140.9$1,258


0.89%
North America41.3247


0.60%
EMEA4.746


0.98%
Latin America
26.3648


2.46%
Asia68.6317


0.46%
Cards˝˙ˆˇ˘
$145.5$7,194


4.94%
North AmericaŠCiti-branded71.93,187


4.43%
North AmericaŠCiti retail services
36.92,322


6.29%
EMEA2.859


2.09%
Latin America
14.11,102


7.84%
Asia19.8524


2.65%
Citi HoldingsŠLocal Consumer Lending˝
$124.3$5,870


4.72%

9.4536


5.72%
North America114.95,334


4.64%
Total Citigroup (excluding 
Special Asset Pool
) (3)(4)$410.7$14,322


3.49%
Ł
“˜‘







š


100For corporate clients and investment banking activities across Citigroup, the credit process is grounded in a series of fundamental policies, in addition 
to those described under ﬁManaging Global RiskŠRisk ManagementŠ
Overviewﬂ above. These include:joint business and independent risk management responsibility for managing credit risks;a single center of control for each credit relationship, which coordinates 
credit activities with each client;portfolio limits to ensure diversification and maintain risk/capital 
alignment;a minimum of two authorized credit officer signatures required on 
extensions of credit, one of which must be from a credit officer in credit 
risk management;risk rating standards, applicable to every obligor and facility; andconsistent standards for credit origination documentation and remedial 
management.For additional information on Citi™s Corporate loan portfolio, including 
allowance for loan losses, coverage ratios and Corporate non-accrual loans, 
see ﬁCredit RiskŠLoans Outstanding, Details of Credit Loss Experience, 
Allowance for Loan Losses and Non-Accrual Loans and Assetsﬂ above.The following table represents the Corporate credit portfolio (excluding 
Private Bank in Securities and Banking) before consideration of collateral, 
by maturity at December 31, 2012 and 2011. The Corporate credit portfolio 
is broken out by direct outstandings, which include drawn loans, overdrafts, 
interbank placements, bankers™ acceptances and leases, and unfunded 
lending commitments, which include unused commitments to lend, letters of 
credit and financial guarantees.At December 31, 2012

In billions of dollarsDue within 1 yearGreater than 1 year but within 5 yearsGreater than 5 yearsTotal 
Exposure

˝
$198$70$18$286

12318012315
˜˛
Total
$321$250$30$601

Citi™s Corporate credit portfolio is diverse across geography and counterparty. 
The following table shows the percentage of direct outstandings and 
unfunded lending commitments by region:December 31, 
2012
˜˚˛˛North America45%EMEA29Asia18Latin America
8Total
100%The maintenance of accurate and consistent risk ratings across the Corporate credit portfolio facilitates the comparison of credit exposure across 
all lines of business, geographic regions and products. Counterparty risk 
ratings reflect an estimated probability of default for a counterparty and are 
derived primarily through the use of validated statistical models, scorecard 
models and external agency ratings (under defined circumstances), in 
combination with consideration of factors specific to the obligor or market, 
such as management experience, competitive position and regulatory 
environment. Facility risk ratings are assigned that reflect the probability 
of default of the obligor and factors that affect the loss-given-default of the 
facility, such as support or collateral. Internal obligor ratings that generally 

correspond to BBB and above are considered investment grade, while those 
below are considered non-investment grade.101Citigroup also has incorporated climate risk assessment criteria for certain obligors, as necessary. Factors evaluated include consideration of climate risk 
to an obligor™s business and physical assets and, when relevant, consideration 

of cost-effective options to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.The following table presents the Corporate credit portfolio by facility risk rating at December 31, 2012 and 2011, as a percentage of the total portfolio:Direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitmentsDecember 31, 
2012
˜˚˛˛56%ŠŠŠ29132˜
Š˛Total
100%Citi™s Corporate credit portfolio is also diversified by industry, with a 
concentration in the financial sector, broadly defined, and including banks, 

other financial institutions, insurance companies, investment banks and 
government and central banks. The following table shows the allocation of 
direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitments to industries as a 
percentage of the total Corporate portfolio:Direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitmentsDecember 31, 
2012
˜˚˛˛19%˝
18•
17
1212˝•
85
432˜Total
100%As part of its overall risk management activities, Citigroup uses credit 
derivatives and other risk mitigants to hedge portions of the credit risk in its 
Corporate credit portfolio, in addition to outright asset sales. The purpose 
of these transactions is to transfer credit risk to third parties. The results of 
the mark to market and any realized gains or losses on credit derivatives 
are reflected in Principal transactions on the Consolidated Statement 
of Income.At December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, $41.6 billion and $41.5 billion, respectively, of credit risk exposures were economically hedged. Citigroup™s expected loss model used in the calculation of its loan loss 

reserve does not include the favorable impact of credit derivatives and other 
mitigants that are marked to market. In addition, the reported amounts of 
direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitments in the tables above 
do not reflect the impact of these hedging transactions. At December 31, 2012 
and December 31, 2011, the credit protection was economically hedging 
underlying credit exposure with the following risk rating distribution:December 31, 
2012
˜˚˛˛29%ŠŠŠ49193˛Total
100%At December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the credit protection was economically hedging underlying credit exposures with the following 
industry distribution:December 31, 
2012
˜˚˛˛•
22%˝
22˜˜21˛˜11˝•
10˛˜
9˛˚41˜Total
100%102Market risk encompasses liquidity risk and price risk, both of which arise in the normal course of business of a global financial intermediary such as Citi. 
For a discussion of funding and liquidity risk, see ﬁCapital Resources and 
LiquidityŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ and ﬁRisk FactorsŠLiquidity Risksﬂ 
above. Price risk losses arise from fluctuations in the market value of trading 
and non-trading positions resulting from changes in interest rates, credit 
spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity prices, and in their 
implied volatilities.Each business is required to establish, with approval from Citi™s market 
risk management, a market risk limit framework for identified risk factors 
that clearly defines approved risk profiles and is within the parameters of 
Citi™s overall risk tolerance. These limits are monitored by independent 
market risk, Citi™s country and business Asset and Liability Committees 
and the Global Finance and Asset and Liability Committee. In all cases, 
the businesses are ultimately responsible for the market risks taken and for 
remaining within their defined limits.Market (price) risks are measured in accordance with established standards 
to ensure consistency across businesses and the ability to aggregate risk. 
The measurement used for non-trading and trading portfolios, as well as 
associated stress testing processes, are described below.Net Interest Revenue and Interest Rate Risk
One of Citi™s primary business functions is providing financial products that 
meet the needs of its customers. Loans and deposits are tailored to customer 
requirements with regard to tenor, index (if applicable) and rate type. Net 
interest revenue (NIR), for interest rate exposure purposes, is the difference 
between the yield earned on the non-trading portfolio assets (including 
customer loans) and the rate paid on the liabilities (including customer 
deposits or company borrowings). NIR is affected by changes in the level of 
interest rates. For example:At any given time, there may be an unequal amount of assets and liabilities that are subject to market rates due to maturation or repricing. 
Whenever the amount of liabilities subject to repricing exceeds the 
amount of assets subject to repricing, a company is considered ﬁliability 
sensitive.ﬂ In this case, a company™s NIR will deteriorate in a rising-rate 
environment.The assets and liabilities of a company may reprice at different speeds or 
mature at different times, subjecting both ﬁliability-sensitiveﬂ and ﬁasset-
sensitiveﬂ companies to NIR sensitivity from changing interest rates. For 
example, a company may have a large amount of loans that are subject 
to repricing in the current period, but the majority of deposits are not 
scheduled for repricing until the following period. That company would 
suffer from NIR deterioration if interest rates were to fall.NIR in any particular period is the result of customer transactions and the related contractual rates originated in prior periods, as well as new 
transactions in the current period; those prior-period transactions will be 

impacted by changes in rates on floating-rate assets and liabilities in the 
current period.Due to the long-term nature of portfolios, NIR will vary from quarter to quarter even assuming no change in the shape or level of the yield curve 
as assets and liabilities reprice. These repricings are a function of implied 
forward interest rates, which represent the overall market™s estimate of future 

interest rates and incorporate possible changes in the federal funds rates, as 
well as the shape of the yield curve.Interest Rate Risk MeasurementCiti™s principal measure of risk to NIR is interest rate exposure (IRE). IRE 
measures the change in expected NIR in each currency resulting solely from 
unanticipated changes in forward interest rates. Factors such as changes 
in volumes, credit spreads, margins and the impact of prior-period pricing 
decisions are not captured by IRE. IRE also assumes that businesses make no 
additional changes in pricing or balances in response to the unanticipated 
rate changes.For example, if the current 90-day LIBOR rate is 3% and the one-year-
forward rate (i.e., the estimated 90-day LIBOR rate in one year) is 5%, the 
+100 bps IRE scenario measures the impact on the company™s NIR of a 

100 bps instantaneous change in the 90-day LIBOR to 6% in one year.The impact of changing prepayment rates on loan portfolios is incorporated into the results. For example, in the declining interest rate 
scenarios, it is assumed that mortgage portfolios prepay faster and that 
income is reduced. In addition, in a rising interest rate scenario, portions of 
the deposit portfolio are assumed to experience rate increases that may be less 

than the change in market interest rates.Mitigation and Hedging of RiskIn order to manage changes in interest rates effectively, Citi may modify 
pricing on new customer loans and deposits, enter into transactions with 
other institutions or enter into off-balance-sheet derivative transactions that 
have the opposite risk exposures. Citi regularly assesses the viability of these 
and other strategies to reduce its interest rate risks and implements such 
strategies when it believes those actions are prudent.Stress TestingCitigroup employs additional measurements, including stress testing the 
impact of non-linear interest rate movements on the value of the balance 
sheet; the analysis of portfolio duration and volatility, particularly as they 
relate to mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities; and the potential 
impact of the change in the spread between different market indices.103Non-Trading PortfoliosŠInterest Rate ExposureThe exposures in the following table represent the approximate annualized 
risk to NIR assuming an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 100 bps 
change in interest rates compared with the market forward interest rates in 
selected currencies.December 31, 2012
˜˚˛˛
In millions of dollarsIncreaseDecrease

U.S. dollar
 (1)$842NM
ıł
Mexican peso
$29$(29)

Euro$12NM
ıł
Japanese yen$65NM
ıł
Pound sterling
$45NM
ıł
“˛‘



ıł

The changes in the U.S. dollar IRE year-over-year reflected changes 
in Citi™s balance sheet composition, including deposit growth. They 

also reflected regular updates of behavioral assumptions for customer-

related assets and liabilities, the impact of lower rates, swap activities and 
repositioning of the liquidity portfolio, including increased AFS investments 
and decreasing long-term debt (see ﬁCapital Resources and LiquidityŠ
Funding and Liquidityﬂ above).The following table shows the approximate annualized risk to NIR from six different changes in the implied-forward rates for the U.S. dollar. Each 

scenario assumes that the rate change will occur simultaneously.


⁄˛˚˚˜˚˚“˜˚˚‘“˛˚˚‘⁄

“˛˚˚‘⁄˛˚˚“˛˚˚‘⁄
˛˚˚Impact to net interest revenue increase (decrease) (in millions of dollars)ıłıł
104Price risk in Citi™s trading portfolios is monitored using a series of measures, including but not limited to:Value at risk (VAR)Stress testingFactor sensitivityEach trading portfolio across Citi™s business segments (Citicorp, Citi 
Holdings and Corporate/Other) has its own market risk limit framework encompassing these measures and other controls, including trading 
mandates, permitted product lists and a new product approval process for 
complex products. All trading positions are marked to market, with the 
results reflected in earnings.The following histogram of total daily trading-related revenue (loss) captures trading volatility and shows the number of days in which revenues 
for Citi™s trading businesses fell within particular ranges. As shown in the 

histogram, positive trading-related revenue was achieved for 96% of the 
trading days in 2012.051015
20
25
3035(20) to (10)(40) to (30)(30) to (20)50 to 6040 to 5030 to 40
20 to 3010 to 200 to 10(10) to (0)60 to 7070 to 8080 to 9090 to 100100 to 110110 to 120120 to 130
130 to 140140 to 150150 to 160> 160

In millions of dollarsFrequency (number of days)
“˛‘

Value at Risk
Value at risk (VAR) estimates, at a 99% confidence level, the potential decline 
in the value of a position or a portfolio under normal market conditions. 
VAR statistics can be materially different across firms due to differences in 
portfolio composition, differences in VAR methodologies, and differences in 
model parameters. Citi believes VAR statistics can be used more effectively as 
indicators of trends in risk taking within a firm, rather than as a basis for 
inferring differences in risk taking across firms.Citi uses a single, independently approved Monte Carlo simulation VAR model (see ﬁVAR Model Review and Validationﬂ below) that has 

been designed to capture material risk sensitivities (such as first- and 
second-order sensitivities of positions to changes in market prices) of various 
asset classes/risk types (such as interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and 
commodity risks). Citi™s VAR includes all positions that are measured at fair 
value; it does not include investment securities classified as available-for-sale 

or held-to-maturity. For information on these securities, see Note 15 to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements.Citi believes its VAR model is conservatively calibrated to incorporate the 
greater of short-term (most recent month) and long-term (three years) 
market volatility. The Monte Carlo simulation involves approximately 

300,000 market factors, making use of 180,000 time series, with sensitivities 
updated daily and model parameters updated weekly. The conservative 

features of the VAR calibration contribute approximately 15% add-on to 

what would be a VAR estimated under the assumption of stable and perfectly 

normally distributed markets.105The table below summarizes VAR for Citi-wide trading portfolios at 
year end and during 2012 and 2011, including yearly averages. Citi™s total 
trading and credit portfolios VAR was $118
 million at December 31, 2012 and $183 million at December 31, 2011. Daily total trading and credit portfolios VAR averaged $148 million in 2012 and ranged from $111 million to $199 million. The change in total trading and credit portfolios VAR year-over-
year was driven by the fact that the relatively higher volatilities from 2008 
and 2009 are no longer included in the three-year volatility time horizon 
used for VAR, as well as reduced risk in the credit portfolios related to CVA and 

Corporate Treasury.
In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
20122012 Average

˜˚˛˛Ł

$116$122

3338

3229

1115
˜˜
“˛‘(76)(82)

˝¢





$116$122


$31$24
˜˛
Total trading VARŠgeneral 
market factors only


$85$98


$2$26

Total trading and 
credit portfolios VAR$118$148

“˛‘
¢¢

•

¢¢




“˜‘¢
S&B˝•
Ł

š

¢

˝•




The table below provides the range of market factor VARs, inclusive of 
specific risk that was experienced during 2012 and 2011.2012˜˚˛˛In millions of dollarsLowHigh
¤˙™

$101$149

2553

1759

921

The following table provides the VAR for 
S&B during 2012, excluding hedges to the loan portfolio, fair value option loans and DVA/CVA, net 

of hedges.In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 2012
TotalŠall market risk 
factors, including 

general and specific risk$112
Ł
$115
14592VAR Model Review and Validation
Generally, Citi™s VAR review and model validation process entails reviewing 
the model framework, major assumptions, and implementation of the 
mathematical algorithm. In addition, as part of the model validation process, 

product specific back-testing on hypothetical portfolios are periodically 
completed and reviewed with Citi™s U.S. banking regulators. Furthermore, 
back-testing is performed against the actual change in market value of 
transactions on a quarterly basis at multiple levels of the organization 
(trading desk level, ICG business segment and Citigroup), and the results are 
also shared with the U.S. banking regulators.Significant VAR model and assumption changes must be independently 
validated within Citi™s risk management organization. This validation process 

includes a review by Citi™s model validation group and further approval 

from its model validation review committee, which is composed of senior 
quantitative risk management officers. In the event of significant model 
changes, parallel model runs are undertaken prior to implementation. In 
addition, significant model and assumption changes are subject to periodic 
reviews and approval by Citi™s U.S. banking regulators.
Citi uses the same independently validated VAR model for both regulatory 
capital and external market risk disclosure purposes and, as such, the model 
review and oversight process for both purposes is as described above. While 
the scope of positions included in the VAR model calculations for regulatory 

capital purposes differs from the scope of positions for external market risk 106disclosure purposes, these differences are due to the fact that certain positions included for external market risk purposes are not eligible for market risk 
treatment under the U.S. regulatory capital rules, either as currently in effect 
under Basel I or under the final market risk capital rules under Basel II.5/III 
(e.g., the interest rate sensitivity of repos and reverse repos and the credit 
and market sensitivities of the derivatives CVA are included for external 

market risk disclosure purposes, but are not included for regulatory capital 
purposes). The applicability of the VAR model for positions eligible for market 

risk treatment under U.S. regulatory capital rules is periodically reviewed and 
approved by Citi™s U.S. banking regulators.
Back-Testing of Trading Market RiskBack-testing is the process in which the daily VAR of the trading portfolio 
is compared to the buy-and-hold profit and loss (e.g., the profit and loss impact if the portfolio is held constant at the end of the day and re-priced the 
following day). Based on the 99% confidence level of Citi™s VAR model, Citi 
would expect two to three days in any one year where buy-and-hold losses 
exceed the VAR of the portfolio. Given the conservative calibration of its VAR 
model, Citi would expect fewer exceptions under normal and stable market 
conditions. Periods of unstable market conditions could increase the number 
of these exceptions. In 2012, no back-testing exceptions were observed for 
Citi™s total trading VAR.The following graph shows the daily buy-and-hold trading revenue compared to the value at risk for Citi™s total trading VAR during 2012.

In millions of dollars˜˚˛˛˜˝˙˛
˜˝˛˛˜˙˛˛˙˛˝˛˛
˝˙˛
˚˛˛Jan-12Feb-12Mar-12Apr-12May-12Jun-12Jul-12Aug-12Sep-12Oct-12Nov-12Dec-12
“˛‘
¢

“˜‘
•


˝
Stress Testing
Stress testing is performed on trading portfolios on a regular basis to estimate 
the impact of extreme market movements. It is performed on both individual 
trading portfolios and on aggregations of portfolios and businesses. 
Independent market risk management, in conjunction with the businesses, 
develops both systemic and specific stress scenarios, reviews the output of 
periodic stress-testing exercises, and uses the information to make judgments 
on the ongoing appropriateness of exposure levels and limits.Factor Sensitivities
Factor sensitivities are expressed as the change in the value of a position for 
a defined change in a market risk factor, such as a change in the value of a 
Treasury bill for a one-basis-point change in interest rates. Citi™s independent 
market risk management ensures that factor sensitivities are calculated, 
monitored, and in most cases, limited, for all relevant risks taken in a 
trading portfolio.107


1Q102Q10
2010: 3.12%2011: 2.86%2012: 2.88%3Q104Q101Q112Q113Q114Q111Q122Q123Q124Q12
1.00%1.50%
2.00%
2.50%
3.00%
3.50%
4.00%
4.50%
5.00%
5.50%In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Change 2012 vs. 2011

$68,680

(6)%20,484
(15)$48,196

(2)%
4.10%
(17 ) bps

1.46
(17) bps
2.88
2 bpsInterest-rate benchmarks˝˝
0.28%
(17) bps˝
1.80
(98) bps
152 bps
“˛‘Interest revenue 
•
“˜‘Interest expense
•


Long-term debt
Principal transactionsA significant portion of Citi™s business activities are based upon gathering 
deposits and borrowing money and then lending or investing those funds, or participating in market-making activities in tradable securities. Citi™s net 

interest margin (NIM) is calculated by dividing gross interest revenue less 
gross interest expense by average interest earning assets.During 2012, Citi™s NIM remained relatively stable as compared to the 
prior year at 288 basis points. Citi continued to experience pressure on its 
loan and investment portfolio yields reflecting the low rate environment. In 
aggregate, this pressure negatively impacted NIM by approximately 17 basis 
points in 2012 versus the prior year. Ongoing pressure from the low rate 

environment was offset by the pay-downs of higher-cost long-term debt and 

redemptions of trust preferred securities during the year, which positively 

impacted NIM by approximately 10 basis points in 2012. In addition, as discussed under ﬁCapital Resources and LiquidityŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ 
above, during 2012, Citi reduced its deposit funding costs, partially through 
increasing the share of non-interest bearing deposits, which contributed 
approximately 10 basis points of NIM benefit in 2012. Decreased deposit costs 
and lower outstanding long-term debt, as well as an increase in Citi™s trading 

book portfolio yields, contributed to the increase in NIM quarter-over-quarter.
Absent any significant changes or events, Citi expects its NIM will likely continue to reflect the pressure of a low interest rate environment and 
subsequent changes in its portfolios, including its trading book portfolio, 
although continued improvement in Citi™s cost of funds and lower levels of 

outstanding long-term debt will both continue to positively impact NIM. As 
such, Citi currently believes that its 2013 NIM should be relatively stable to its 
full-year 2012 level, with some quarterly fluctuations.108Average volume
Interest revenue% Average rate
In millions of dollars, except rates
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
AssetsDeposits with banks (5)$157,997

$1,269

0.80%
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or 
purchased under agreements to resell (6)
$156,837

$1,471

0.94%

120,400
1,947
1.62
˝˙ˆˇ˘
$277,237

$3,418

1.23%
Trading account assets
 (7)(8)
$124,633

$3,899

3.13%

126,203
3,077
2.44
˝˙ˆˇ˘
$250,836

$6,976

2.78%
Investments
˝ˇ‰ˇ
$169,307

$2,880

1.70%

16,405
816
4.97

114,549
4,156
3.63
˝˙ˆˇ˘
$300,261

$7,852

2.62%
Loans (net of unearned income) (9)
$359,794

$27,077

7.53%

289,371
21,508
7.43
˝˙ˆˇ˘
$649,165

$48,585

7.48%
Other interest-earning assets$40,766

$580

1.42%
˝
$1,676,262

$68,680

4.10%
$234,437

˝
Š
Total assets
$1,910,699

“˛‘Interest revenue•
“˜‘





Interest revenue Interest expense Discontinued operations

Ł
˘ˇ
Ł
‹
Interest revenue 
Non-interest-earning assets Other non-interest-bearing liabilities
Interest expenseTrading account liabilities 
ICGInterest revenueInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets 
Trading account liabilities
•
109Average volume
Interest expense
% Average rate
In millions of dollars, except rates
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
LiabilitiesDeposits

$233,100

$1,954

0.84%

488,166
5,659
1.16

$721,266

$7,613

1.06%˛˘˜˛“
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned  
or sold under agreements to repurchase (7)
$121,843

$852

0.70%

101,928
1,965
1.93

$223,771

$2,817

1.26%
Trading account liabilities
 (8)(9)
$29,486

$116

0.39%

44,639
74
0.17˚˘˜˜

$74,125

$190

0.26%
Short-term borrowings

$78,747

$203

0.26%

31,897
524
1.64

$110,644

$727

0.66%
Long-term debt (10)
$255,093

$8,845

3.47%

14,603
292
2.00

$269,696

$9,137

3.39%
Total interest-bearing liabilities
$1,399,502

$20,484

1.46%

$13,170


311,529

Š˛˚
Total liabilities
$1,724,201

Citigroup stockholders™ equity (11)$184,592

1,906
Total equity
 (11)$186,498

Total liabilities and stockholders™ equity
$1,910,699

Net interest revenue as a percentage of average  interest-earning assets (12)
$941,367

$24,800

2.63%

734,895
23,396
3.18
Total
$1,676,262

$48,196

2.88%
ˆInterest expense›˘
ˆ

ˆ

ˆ
ˆ
Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations
˘
ˆ
ˆ
ˆﬁ

ˆﬁ
…ˆ
Interest expenseˆ
Non-interest-earning assetsOther non-interest-bearing liabilities
˘ˆInterest expenseTrading account liabilities
ICGInterest revenue˘ˆInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account
ˆassetsˆTrading account
ˆliabilities
›˘
ˆ

Long-term debt
Principal transactions˘ˆ
ˆ

1102012 vs. 2011
ˆ˜˚˛˚
Increase (decrease) due to change in:In millions of dollarsAverage 
volumeAverage 
rateNet changeﬁˆ
ﬁ

Deposits with banks (4)$(114)$(367)$(481)

Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or  
purchased under agreements to resellˆ
$(12)$(4)$(16)


67(264)(197)


$55$(268)$(213)
Ž
Trading account assets
 (5)
$82$(453)$(371)


(544)(412)(956)


$(462)$(865)$(1,327)

Investments (1)
$44$(583)$(539)


(281)(41)(322)


$(237)$(624)$(861)

Loans (net of unearned income) (6)
$(764)$(1,270)$(2,034)


1,158(830)328


$394$(2,100)$(1,706)

Other interest-earning assets$(101)$168$67

Total interest revenue
$(465)$(4,056)$(4,521)

ˆ
ˆ

ˆ
ˆ
Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations
˘
ˆ

ˆInterest expenseTrading account liabilities 
 ICGInterest revenue˘ˆInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets 
Trading account liabilities,
›˘
ˆ1112012 vs. 2011
ˆ˜˚˛˚
Increase (decrease) due to change in:In millions of dollarsAverage 
volumeAverage 
rateNet changeﬁ
ﬁ

Deposits
$97$(314)$(217)
˛˛

40(766)(726)


$137$(1,080)$(943)

Federal funds purchased and securities loaned  
or sold under agreements to repurchase
$12$64$76
˛

49(505)(456)


$61$(441)$(380)

Trading account liabilities
 (5)
$(48)$(102)$(150)


(12)(56)(68)


$(60)$(158)$(218)

Short-term borrowings

$(15)$79$64


(104)11713


$(119)$196$77

Long-term debt

$(2,422)$570$(1,852)


(117)(312)(429)


$(2,539)$258$(2,281)

Total interest expense
$(2,520)$(1,225)$(3,745)

Net interest revenue$2,055$(2,831)$(776)

ˆ
ˆ

ˆ
ˆ
Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations
˘
ˆ

ˆInterest expenseTrading account liabilities
ICGInterest revenue˘ˆInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets
ˆTrading account liabilities
›˘
112Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, systems or human factors, or from external events. It includes the 
reputation and franchise risk associated with business practices or market 
conduct in which Citi is involved. Operational risk is inherent in Citigroup™s 
global business activities, as well as its internal processes that support those 
business activities, and can result in losses arising from events related to the 
following, among others:fraud, theft and unauthorized activities;employment practices and workplace environment;clients, products and business practices;physical assets and infrastructure; andexecution, delivery and process management.Citi™s operational risk is managed through an overall framework designed to balance strong corporate oversight with well-defined independent risk 
management. This framework includes:recognized ownership of the risk by the businesses;oversight by Citi™s independent risk management and control functions; andindependent assessment by Citi™s Internal Audit function.
The goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels relative to the 
characteristics of Citigroup™s businesses, the markets in which it operates, its 
capital and liquidity, and the competitive, economic and regulatory environment.
To monitor, mitigate and control operational risk, Citigroup maintains a 
system of policies and has established a consistent framework for assessing 
and communicating operational risks and the overall effectiveness of the 
internal control environment across Citigroup. As part of this framework, 
Citi has established a ﬁManager™s Control Assessmentﬂ program to help 

managers self-assess key operational risks and controls and identify and 
address weaknesses in the design and/or effectiveness of internal controls that 
mitigate significant operational risks.As noted above, each major business segment must implement an operational risk process consistent with the requirements of this framework. 
The process for operational risk management includes the following steps:identify and assess key operational risks;design controls to mitigate identified risks;establish key risk and control indicators;implement a process for early problem recognition and timely escalation;produce a comprehensive operational risk report; andensure that sufficient resources are available to actively improve the operational risk environment and mitigate emerging risks.As new products and business activities are developed, processes are designed, modified or sourced through alternative means and operational 
risks are considered.An Operational Risk Council provides oversight for operational risk across Citigroup. The Council™s membership includes senior members of Citi™s 

Franchise Risk and Strategy group and the Chief Risk Officer™s organization 

covering multiple dimensions of risk management, with representatives of 
the Business and Regional Chief Risk Officers™ organizations. The Council™s 

focus is on identification and mitigation of operational risk and related 
incidents. The Council works with the business segments and the control 
functions (e.g., Compliance, Finance, Human Resources and Legal) with the 
objective of ensuring a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework 
for managing operational risk globally.
In addition, Enterprise Risk Management, within Citi™s independent risk 
management, proactively assists the businesses, operations and technology 
and the other independent control groups in enhancing the effectiveness 
of controls and managing operational risks across products, business lines 
and regions.As noted above, information about the businesses™ operational risk, 
historical operational risk losses and the control environment is reported by each major business segment and functional area and is summarized and reported to senior management, as well as to the Audit Committee of Citi™s 
Board of Directors.Operational risk is measured and assessed through risk capital (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠRisk Capitalﬂ above). The approach to capital modeling is designed to be generally consistent with Basel II advanced 
measurement approaches standards (see ﬁCapital Resources and LiquidityŠ
Capital ResourcesŠRegulatory Capital Standardsﬂ above). Projected 
operational risk losses under stress scenarios are also required as part of the 
Federal Reserve Board™s CCAR process.113OverviewCountry risk is the risk that an event in a country (precipitated by 
developments within or external to a country) could directly or indirectly 
impair the value of Citi™s franchise or adversely affect the ability of obligors 
within that country to honor their obligations to Citi, any of which could 
negatively impact Citi™s results of operations or financial condition. Country 
risk events could include sovereign volatility or defaults, banking failures 
or defaults, redenomination events (which could be accompanied by a 
revaluation (either devaluation or appreciation) of the affected currency), 
currency crises, foreign exchange and/or capital controls and/or political 
events and instability. Country risk events could result in mandatory loan 
loss and other reserve requirements imposed by U.S. regulators due to a 
particular country™s economic situation. See also ﬁRisk FactorsŠMarket and 
Economic Risksﬂ above.Citi has instituted a risk management process to monitor, evaluate and 
manage the principal risks it assumes in conducting its activities, which 
include the credit, market and operations risks associated with Citi™s country 

risk exposures. The risk management organization is structured to facilitate 
the management of risk across three dimensions: businesses, regions and 
critical products. The Chief Risk Officer monitors and controls major risk 
exposures and concentrations across the organization, and subjects those 
risks to alternative stress scenarios in order to assess the potential economic 
impact they may have on Citi. Citi™s independent risk management, working 

with input from the businesses and finance, provides periodic updates to 
senior management on significant potential areas of concern across Citi 
that can arise from risk concentrations, financial market participants and 
other systemic issues including, for example, Eurozone debt issues and other 
developments in the European Monetary Union (EMU). These areas of focus 
are intended to be forward-looking assessments of the potential economic 
impacts to Citi that may arise from these exposures. For a discussion of Citi™s 

risk management policies and practices generally, see ﬁManaging Global 

RiskŠRisk ManagementŠOverviewﬂ above.While Citi continues to work to mitigate its exposures to potential country risk events, the impact of any such event is highly uncertain and will be 
based on the specific facts and circumstances. As a result, there can be no 
assurance that the various steps Citi has taken to protect its businesses, results 
of operations and financial condition against these events will be sufficient. 
In addition, there could be negative impacts to Citi™s businesses, results of 

operations or financial condition that are currently unknown to Citi and thus 
cannot be mitigated as part of its ongoing contingency planning.Several European countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, 
Spain (GIIPS) and France, have been the subject of credit deterioration due 
to weaknesses in their economic and fiscal situations. Moreover, the ongoing 

Eurozone debt and economic crisis and other developments in the EMU 
could lead to the withdrawal of one or more countries from the EMU or a 
partial or complete break-up of the EMU. Given investor interest in this area, 
the narrative and tables below set forth certain information regarding Citi™s 

country risk exposures on these topics as of December 31, 2012.Credit RiskGenerally, credit risk measures Citi™s net exposure to a credit or market risk 
event. Citi™s credit risk reporting is based on Citi™s internal risk management 
measures and systems. The country designation in Citi™s internal risk 
management systems is based on the country to which the client relationship, 
taken as a whole, is most directly exposed to economic, financial, 
sociopolitical or legal risks. As a result, Citi™s reported credit risk exposures 
in a particular country may include exposures to subsidiaries within the 
client relationship that are actually domiciled outside of the country (e.g., 
Citi™s Greece credit risk exposures may include loans, derivatives and other 
exposures to a U.K. subsidiary of a Greece-based corporation).Citi believes that the risk of loss associated with the exposures set forth below, which are based on Citi™s internal risk management measures and 

systems, is likely materially lower than the exposure amounts disclosed 
below and is sized appropriately relative to its franchise in these countries. 
In addition, the sovereign entities of the countries disclosed below, as well as 

the financial institutions and corporations domiciled in these countries, are 
important clients in the global Citi franchise. Citi fully expects to maintain 
its presence in these markets to service all of its global customers. As such, 
Citi™s credit risk exposure in these countries may vary over time based on its 

franchise, client needs and transaction structures.114In billions of U.S. dollars as of December 31, 2012
GIIPS (1)GreeceIrelandItalyPortugalSpainFrance

$8.0$1.1$0.3$1.8$0.3$4.5$5.4
ﬁ
13.60.60.59.60.22.66.0
Gross funded credit exposure
$21.6$1.7$0.8$11.4$0.5$7.1$11.5

$(5.5)$(0.3)$(0.3)$(1.2)$(0.1)$(3.5)$(5.0)

(10.1)(0.3)(0.0)(7.6)(0.2)(2.0)(2.6)
Net current funded credit exposure
$6.0$1.2$0.5$2.6$0.2$1.5$3.9
$2.6$0.0$(0.0)$1.4$0.1$1.1$(0.2)
0.30.00.00.20.00.00.3
Net trading and AFS exposure
$2.9$0.0$(0.0)$1.6$0.1$1.2$0.1
Net current funded exposure
$8.9$1.2$0.5$4.2$0.3$2.7$4.0
Additional collateral received, not reducing amounts above
$(2.1)$(0.9)$(0.2)$(0.6)$(0.0)$(0.4)$(4.0)
Net current funded credit exposure detail
$1.1$0.2$0.0$1.1$0.0$(0.3)$0.0
0.80.00.00.20.00.61.9

4.11.00.51.30.11.22.0
Net current funded credit exposure
$6.0$1.2$0.5$2.6$0.2$1.5$3.9
Net unfunded commitments (6)$0.0$0.0$0.0$0.0$0.0$0.0$0.1
0.40.00.00.10.00.33.2

6.90.80.53.00.22.311.2
Total net unfunded commitments
$7.3$0.8$0.5$3.1$0.2$2.6$14.4
ˆ
ˆˆˆ
˘ˆ˜˚˛˜˘
ˆ

ˆ˜˚˛˜˘
ˆ
›
ˆ
›˘
ˆ
……˘
ˆ
…
ˆ
˘
ˆ
›˘
115GIIPSSovereign, Financial Institution and Corporate ExposuresAs noted in the table above, Citi™s gross funded credit exposure to sovereign 
entities, financial institutions and multinational and local corporations 
designated in the GIIPS under Citi™s risk management systems was 
$21.6 billion at December 31, 2012, compared to $21.3 billion at September 30, 2012. This $21.6 billion of gross funded credit exposure at December 31, 2012 was made up of $8.0 billion in gross funded loans, before 
reserves (compared to $8.4 billion at September 30, 2012), and $13.6 billion in derivative counterparty mark-to-market exposure, inclusive of CVA 
(compared to $13.0 billion at September 30, 2012). The increase in derivative 
counterparty mark-to-market exposure quarter-over-quarter was primarily 
due to an increase in exposure in Italy due to market movements.Further, as of December 31, 2012, Citi™s net current funded exposure 
to sovereigns, financial institutions and corporations designated in the 
GIIPS under Citi™s risk management systems was $8.9 billion, compared 

to $9.5 billion at September 30, 2012, reflecting a decrease in net current 
funded credit exposure partially offset by an increase in net trading and AFS 
exposure, each as discussed below.
Net Trading and AFS ExposureŠ$2.9 billionIncluded in the net current funded exposure at December 31, 2012 was a net 
position of $2.9 billion in securities and derivatives with GIIPS sovereigns, 
financial institutions and corporations as the issuer or reference entity. 
This compared to $2.0 billion of net trading and AFS exposures as of 
September 30, 2012. These securities and derivatives are marked to market daily. Citi™s trading exposure levels vary as it maintains inventory consistent 
with customer needs.Included within the net position of $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2012 was a net position of $(0.1) billion of indexed and tranched credit derivatives 
(compared to a net position of $(0.05) billion at September 30, 2012).Net Current Funded Credit ExposureŠ$6.0 billionAs of December 31, 2012, Citi™s net current funded credit exposure to 
GIIPS sovereigns, financial institutions and corporations was $6.0 billion, 
the majority of which was to corporations designated in the GIIPS. This 
compared to $7.4 billion as of September 30, 2012. The decrease in Citi™s net 
current funded credit exposure quarter-over-quarter was due to an increase 
in margin and collateral netted against Citi™s gross funded credit exposure in 
the GIIPS, as discussed below.Consistent with its internal risk management measures and as set forth in the table above, Citi™s gross funded credit exposure as of December 31, 2012 has been reduced by $5.5 billion of margin and collateral posted 
under legally enforceable margin agreements, compared to $3.8 billion as 
of September 30, 2012. The quarter-over-quarter increase in margin and 

collateral netted against Citi™s gross funded credit exposure to the GIIPS 

was largely due to a reallocation of approximately $1.4 billion of non-
GIIPS government bonds from ﬁAdditional collateral received, not reducing 
amounts aboveﬂ to margin and collateral netted against Citi™s gross funded 

credit exposures as of December 31, 2012. The reallocation resulted from additional analysis of Citi™s collateral rights and the legal enforceability of 

those rights. As of December 31, 2012, the majority of Citi™s margin and 

collateral netted against its gross funded credit exposure to the GIIPS was in 
the form of cash, with the remainder in predominantly non-GIIPS securities, 
which are included at fair value.Gross funded credit exposure as of December 31, 2012 has also been reduced by $10.1 billion in purchased credit protection (flat to the 
September 30, 2012 amount), predominantly from financial institutions outside the GIIPS (see ﬁCredit Default Swapsﬂ below). Included within 
the $10.1 billion of purchased credit protection as of December 31, 2012 
was $0.5 billion of indexed and tranched credit derivatives (compared to $0.9 billion at September 30, 2012) executed to hedge Citi™s exposure on funded loans and CVA on derivatives, a significant portion of which is reflected in Italy and Spain.Purchased credit protection generally pays out only upon the occurrence of certain credit events with respect to the country or borrower covered by 
the protection, as determined by a committee composed of dealers and other 
market participants. In addition to general counterparty credit risks, the 
credit protection may not fully cover all situations that may adversely affect 
the value of Citi™s exposure and, accordingly, Citi could still experience losses 

despite the existence of the credit protection.As of December 31, 2012, Citi also held $2.1 billion of collateral that has not been netted against its gross funded credit exposure to the GIIPS, a 
decrease from $3.6 billion at September 30, 2012. The quarter-over-quarter 

decrease was due to the reallocation of the non-GIIPS government bonds 
referenced above. Collateral received but not netted against Citi™s gross 

funded credit exposure in the GIIPS may take a variety of forms, including 
securities, receivables and physical assets, and is held under a variety of 
collateral arrangements.Unfunded CommitmentsŠ$7.3 billionAs of December 31, 2012, Citi had $7.3 billion of unfunded commitments to 
GIIPS sovereigns, financial institutions and corporations, with $6.9 billion 
of this amount to corporations. This compared to $6.6 billion of unfunded 
commitments as of September 30, 2012, with $6.3 billion of such amount to 
corporations. As of December 31, 2012, net unfunded commitments in the 
GIIPS included approximately $5.2 billion of unfunded loan commitments 
that generally have standard conditions that must be met before they can 
be drawn, and $2.0 billion of letters of credit (compared to $4.4 billion and 
$2.2 billion, respectively, at September 30, 2012).Other Activities
In addition to the exposures described above, like other banks, Citi also 
provides settlement and clearing facilities for a variety of clients in these 
countries and actively monitors and manages these intra-day exposures.116Retail, Small Business and Citi Private BankAs of December 31, 2012, Citi had approximately $6.2 billion of mostly 
locally funded accrual loans to retail, small business and Citi Private Bank 
customers in the GIIPS, the vast majority of which was in Citi Holdings. 
This compared to $6.3 billion as of September 30, 2012. Of the $6.2 billion, approximately (i) $3.8 billion consisted of retail and small business 
exposures in Spain of $2.7 billion and Greece of $1.1 billion, (ii) $1.5 billion 
related to held-to-maturity securitized retail assets (primarily mortgage-
backed securities in Spain), and (iii) $0.8 billion related to Private Bank 
customers, substantially all in Spain. This compared to approximately 
(i) $4.0 billion of retail and small business exposures in Spain of $2.8 billion and Greece of $1.2 billion, (ii) $1.5 billion related to held-to-maturity 
securitized retail assets, and (iii) $0.8 billion related to Private Bank 
customers as of September 30, 2012.In addition, Citi had approximately $4.1 billion of unfunded commitments to GIIPS retail customers as of December 31, 2012, unchanged from 

September 30, 2012. Citi™s unfunded commitments to GIIPS retail customers, 

in the form of unused credit card lines, are generally cancellable upon the 

occurrence of significant credit events, including redenomination events.FranceSovereign, Financial Institution and Corporate ExposuresCiti™s gross funded credit exposure to the sovereign entity of France, as well as 
financial institutions and multinational and local corporations designated 
in France under Citi™s risk management systems, was $11.5 billion at 
December 31, 2012, compared to $13.3 billion at September 30, 2012. This $11.5 billion of gross funded credit exposure at December 31, 2012 was made up of $5.4 billion in gross funded loans, before reserves (compared to $6.4 billion at September 30, 2012), and $6.0 billion in derivative counterparty mark-to-market exposure, inclusive of CVA (compared to 
$6.9 billion at September 30, 2012).Further, as of December 31, 2012, Citi™s net current funded exposure to the 
French sovereign and financial institutions and corporations designated in 
France under Citi™s risk management systems was $4.0 billion, compared to 

$3.6 billion at September 30, 2012.Net Trading and AFS ExposureŠ$0.1 billionIncluded in the net current funded exposure at December 31, 2012 was a 
net position of $0.1 billion in securities and derivatives with the French 
sovereign, financial institutions and corporations as the issuer or reference 
entity. This compared to a net position of $(0.5) billion of net trading and 
AFS exposures as of September 30, 2012. These securities and derivatives are 
marked to market daily. Citi™s trading exposure levels vary as it maintains 
inventory consistent with customer needs.Included within the net position of $0.1 billion as of December 2012 was a net position of $0.4 billion of indexed and tranched credit derivatives 
(compared to a net position of $0.03 billion at September 30, 2012).Net Current Funded Credit ExposureŠ$3.9 billion
As of December 31, 2012, the net current funded credit exposure to the 
French sovereign, financial institutions and corporations was $3.9 billion. 
Of this amount, none was to the sovereign entity (compared to $0.8 billion 
at September 30, 2012), $1.9 billion was to financial institutions (compared 
to $2.1 billion at September 30, 2012) and $2.0 billion to corporations 
(compared to $1.1 billion at September 30, 2012).Consistent with its internal risk management measures and as set forth in the table above, Citi™s gross funded credit exposure has been reduced 

by $5.0 billion of margin and collateral posted under legally enforceable 
margin agreements (compared to $5.5 billion at September 30, 2012). As 
of December 31, 2012, the majority of Citi™s margin and collateral netted 

against its gross funded credit exposure to France was in the form of cash, 
with the remainder in predominantly non-French securities, which are 
included at fair value.Gross funded credit exposure as of December 31, 2012 has also been reduced by $2.6 billion in purchased credit protection (compared to 
$3.7 billion at September 30, 2012), predominantly from financial institutions outside France (see ﬁCredit Default Swapsﬂ below). Included 
within the $2.6 billion of purchased credit protection as of December 31, 
2012 was $0.6 billion of indexed and tranched credit derivatives executed to hedge Citi™s exposure on funded loans and CVA on derivatives (compared to 
$1.4 billion at September 30, 2012).Purchased credit protection generally pays out only upon the occurrence of certain credit events with respect to the country or borrower covered by 
the protection, as determined by a committee composed of dealers and other 
market participants. In addition to general counterparty credit risks, the 
credit protection may not fully cover all situations that may adversely affect 
the value of Citi™s exposure and, accordingly, Citi could still experience losses 

despite the existence of the credit protection.As of December 31, 2012, Citi also held $4.0 billion of collateral that has not been netted against its gross funded credit exposure to France, an 
increase from $3.5 billion as of September 30, 2012. As described above, 
this collateral can take a variety of forms and is held under a variety of collateral arrangements.Unfunded CommitmentsŠ$14.4 billionAs of December 31, 2012, Citi had $14.4 billion of unfunded commitments 
to the French sovereign, financial institutions and corporations, with 
$11.2 billion of this amount to corporations. This compared to $13.7 billion of unfunded commitments as of September 30, 2012, with $10.6 billion 
of such amount to corporations. As of December 31, 2012, net unfunded 
commitments in France included $11.7 billion of unfunded loan 
commitments that generally have standard conditions that must be met 
before they can be drawn, and $2.7 billion of letters of credit (compared to 
$10.6 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, as of September 30, 2012).117Other ActivitiesIn addition to the exposures described above, like other banks, Citi also 
provides settlement and clearing facilities for a variety of clients in France 
and actively monitors and manages these intra-day exposures.Credit Default SwapsŠGIIPS and FranceCiti buys and sells credit protection, through credit default swaps (CDS), on 
underlying GIIPS and French entities as part of its market-making activities 
for clients in its trading portfolios. Citi also purchases credit protection, 
through CDS, to hedge its own credit exposure to these underlying entities 
that arises from loans to these entities or derivative transactions with 
these entities.Citi buys and sells CDS as part of its market-making activity, and purchases CDS for credit protection, primarily with investment grade, global 
financial institutions predominantly outside the GIIPS and France. The counterparty credit exposure that can arise from the purchase or sale of CDS, 
including any GIIPS or French counterparties, is managed and mitigated 
through legally enforceable netting and margining agreements with a given 
counterparty. Thus, the credit exposure to that counterparty is measured 

and managed in aggregate across all products covered by a given netting or 
margining agreement.The notional amount of credit protection purchased or sold on GIIPS and French underlying single reference entities as of December 31, 2012 is set 
forth in the table below. The net notional contract amounts, less mark-to-

market adjustments, are included in ﬁNet current funded exposureﬂ in the 
table under ﬁSovereign, Financial Institution and Corporate Exposuresﬂ 
above, and appear in either ﬁNet trading exposureﬂ when part of a trading 
strategy or in ﬁPurchased credit protectionﬂ when purchased as a hedge 
against a credit exposure.CDS purchased or sold on underlying single reference entities in these countries In billions of U.S. dollars as of December 31, 2012
GIIPSGreeceIrelandItalyPortugalSpainFrance

$(15.9)$(0.5)$(0.7)$(10.6)$(2.2)$(5.9)$(9.0)
6.10.40.73.02.13.96.0


(11.9)Š(0.6)(8.7)(1.7)(3.8)(3.8)
4.7Š0.62.01.63.34.0


(2.6)(0.0)(0.0)(1.5)(0.3)(1.2)(1.7)
2.20.00.01.40.31.01.4


(3.9)(0.5)(0.2)(2.0)(0.7)(1.9)(5.4)
1.70.40.11.20.60.72.5
ˆ
…
When Citi purchases CDS as a hedge against a credit exposure, it generally seeks to purchase products from counterparties that would not be correlated with the underlying credit exposure it is hedging. In addition, Citi generally 
seeks to purchase products with a maturity date similar to the exposure 
against which the protection is purchased. While certain exposures may have 
longer maturities that extend beyond the CDS tenors readily available in the 
market, Citi generally will purchase credit protection with a maximum tenor 
that is readily available in the market.The above table contains all net CDS purchased or sold on GIIPS and French underlying single reference entities, whether part of a trading 
strategy or as purchased credit protection. With respect to the $15.9 billion 
net purchased CDS contracts on underlying GIIPS reference entities, 
approximately 91% was purchased from non-GIIPS counterparties and 83% 
was purchased from investment grade counterparties as of December 31, 2012. With respect to the $9.0 billion net purchased CDS contracts on 
underlying French reference entities, approximately 97% was purchased from 
non-French counterparties and 93% was purchased from investment grade 
counterparties as of December 31, 2012.118Secured Financing TransactionsŠGIIPS and FranceAs part of its banking activities with its clients, Citi enters into secured 
financing transactions, such as repurchase agreements and reverse 
repurchase agreements. These transactions typically involve the lending of 
cash, against which securities are taken as collateral. The amount of cash 
loaned against the securities collateral is a function of the liquidity and 
quality of the collateral as well as the credit quality of the counterparty. The 
collateral is typically marked to market daily, and Citi has the ability to call 
for additional collateral (usually in the form of cash) if the value of the 
securities falls below a pre-defined threshold.As shown in the table below, at December 31, 2012, Citi had loaned 
$13.0 billion in cash through secured financing transactions with GIIPS and French counterparties, usually through reverse repurchase agreements. 
This compared to $12.6 billion as of September 30, 2012. Against those 
loans, it held approximately $16.6 billion fair value of securities collateral. 
In addition, Citi held $1.2 billion in variation margin, most of which was in 
cash, against all secured financing transactions.Consistent with Citi™s risk management systems, secured financing transactions are included in the counterparty derivative mark-to-market 
exposure at their net credit exposure value, which is typically small or zero 
given the over-collateralized structure of these transactions.
In billions of dollars as of December 31, 2012
Cash financing outSecurities collateral in
 (1)$13.0$16.6ˆ

Collateral taken in against secured financing transactions is generally high quality, marketable securities, consisting of government debt, corporate debt, or asset-backed securities. The table below sets forth the fair value of the securities collateral taken in by Citi against secured 
financing transactions as of December 31, 2012.In billions of dollars as of December 31, 2012
Total
Government 
bondsMunicipal or Corporate bondsAsset-backed bonds
$16.6
$2.9
$2.7
$11.0

$16.4
$2.7
$2.6
$11.0

0.20.10.10.0ˆ
Secured financing transactions can be short term or can extend beyond one year. In most cases, Citi has the right to call for additional margin 

daily, and can terminate the transaction and liquidate the collateral if 
the counterparty fails to post the additional margin. The table below 
sets forth the remaining transaction tenor for these transactions as of December 31, 2012.Remaining transaction tenorIn billions of dollars as of December 31, 2012
Total<1 year1-3 years>3 years
$13.0$8.8$2.6
$1.6ˆ
119As referenced above, the ongoing Eurozone debt crisis and other developments in the European Monetary Union (EMU) could lead to the 
withdrawal of one or more countries from the EMU or a partial or complete 
break-up of the EMU. See also ﬁRisk FactorsŠMarket and Economic Risks.ﬂ 
If one or more countries were to leave the EMU, certain obligations relating 
to the exiting country could be redenominated from the Euro to a new 
country currency. While alternative scenarios could develop, redenomination 
could be accompanied by immediate devaluation of the new currency as 
compared to the Euro and the U.S. dollar. Citi, like other financial institutions with substantial operations in the EMU, is exposed to potential redenomination and devaluation risks 
arising from (i) Euro-denominated assets and/or liabilities located or held 
within the exiting country that are governed by local country law (ﬁlocal 
exposuresﬂ), as well as (ii) other Euro-denominated assets and liabilities, 
such as loans, securitized products or derivatives, between entities outside of 
the exiting country and a client within the country that are governed by local 
country law (ﬁoffshore exposuresﬂ). However, the actual assets and liabilities 

that could be subject to redenomination and devaluation risk are subject to 
substantial legal and other uncertainty. 
Citi has been, and will continue to be, engaged in contingency planning for such events, particularly with respect to Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal 

and Spain. Generally, to the extent that Citi™s local and offshore assets 

are approximately equal to its liabilities within the exiting country, and 

assuming both assets and liabilities are symmetrically redenominated and 
devalued, Citi believes that its risk of loss as a result of a redenomination 
and devaluation event would not be material. However, to the extent its local 

and offshore assets and liabilities are not equal, or there is asymmetrical 
redenomination of assets versus liabilities, Citi could be exposed to losses 
in the event of a redenomination and devaluation. Moreover, a number of 

events that could accompany a redenomination and devaluation, including 
a drawdown of unfunded commitments or ﬁdeposit flight,ﬂ could exacerbate 
any mismatch of assets and liabilities within the exiting country.
Citi™s redenomination and devaluation exposures to the GIIPS as of 
December 31, 2012 are not additive to its credit risk exposures to such 
countries as described under ﬁCredit Riskﬂ above. Rather, Citi™s credit risk 

exposures in the affected country would generally be reduced to the extent of 
any redenomination and devaluation of assets.As of December 31, 2012, Citi estimates that it had net asset exposure subject to redenomination and devaluation in Italy, principally relating to 

derivatives contracts. Citi also estimates that, as of such date, it had net asset 
exposure subject to redenomination and devaluation in Spain, principally 
related to offshore exposures related to held-to-maturity securitized retail 
assets (primarily mortgage-backed securities) and exposures to Private Bank 
customers (see ﬁGIIPSŠRetail, Small Business and Citi Private Bankﬂ 
above). However, as of December 31, 2012, Citi™s estimated redenomination 

and devaluation exposure to Italy was less than Citi™s net current funded 

credit exposure to Italy (before purchased credit protection) as reflected 
under ﬁCredit Riskﬂ above. Further, as of December 31, 2012, Citi™s estimated 

redenomination and devaluation exposure to Spain was less than Citi™s net 

current funded credit exposure to Spain (before purchased credit protection), 
as reflected under ﬁCredit Riskﬂ above. As of December 31, 2012, Citi had a 
net liability position in each of Greece, Ireland and Portugal. As referenced above, Citi™s estimated redenomination and devaluation 
exposure does not include purchased credit protection. As described under 
ﬁCredit Riskﬂ above, Citi has purchased credit protection primarily from 
investment grade, global financial institutions predominantly outside of 
the GIIPS. To the extent the purchased credit protection is available in 

a redenomination/devaluation event, any redenomination/devaluation 
exposure could be reduced. Any estimates of redenomination/devaluation exposure are subject to ongoing review and necessarily involve numerous assumptions, including 
which assets and liabilities would be subject to redenomination in any given 
case, the availability of purchased credit protection and the extent of any 
utilization of unfunded commitments, each as referenced above. In addition, 
other events outside of Citi™s controlŠ such as the extent of any deposit 

flight and devaluation, the imposition of exchange and/or capital controls, 
the requirement by U.S. regulators of mandatory loan loss and other reserve 
requirements or any required timing of functional currency changes and 
the accounting impact thereof Šcould further negatively impact Citi in 
such an event. Accordingly, in an actual redenomination and devaluation 

scenario, Citi™s exposures could vary considerably based on the specific facts 

and circumstances.120OverviewCross-border risk is the risk that actions taken by a non-U.S. government may 

prevent the conversion of local currency into non-local currency and/or the 
transfer of funds outside the country, among other risks, thereby impacting 
the ability of Citigroup and its customers to transact business across borders. 
Examples of cross-border risk include actions taken by foreign governments 
such as exchange controls and restrictions on the remittance of funds. These 
actions might restrict the transfer of funds or the ability of Citigroup to obtain 
payment from customers on their contractual obligations. Management of 
cross-border risk at Citi is performed through a formal review process that 
includes annual setting of cross-border limits and ongoing monitoring of 
cross-border exposures as well as monitoring of economic conditions globally 
through Citi™s independent risk management. See also ﬁRisk FactorsŠ
Market and Economic Risksﬂ above.MethodologyUnder Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) 
regulatory guidelines, total reported cross-border outstandings include cross-
border claims on third parties, as well as investments in and funding of local franchises. Cross-border claims on third parties (trade and short-, medium- 
and long-term claims) include cross-border loans, securities, deposits with 
banks, investments in affiliates, and other monetary assets, as well as net 
revaluation gains on foreign exchange and derivative products.FFIEC cross-border risk measures exposure to the immediate obligors or counterparties domiciled in the given country or, if applicable, by the 

location of collateral or guarantors of the legally binding guarantees. 
Cross-border outstandings are reported based on the country of the obligor 
or guarantor. Outstandings backed by cash collateral are assigned to the 

country in which the collateral is held. For securities received as collateral, 
cross-border outstandings are reported in the domicile of the issuer of 
the securities. Cross-border resale agreements are presented based on the 
domicile of the counterparty.
Investments in and funding of local franchises represent the excess of local 
country assets over local country liabilities. Local country assets are claims 

on local residents recorded by branches and majority-owned subsidiaries of 

Citigroup domiciled in the country, adjusted for externally guaranteed claims 

and certain collateral. Local country liabilities are obligations of non-U.S. 

branches and majority-owned subsidiaries of Citigroup for which no cross-
border guarantee has been issued by another Citigroup office.The table below sets forth the countries where Citigroup™s total cross-border outstandings, as defined by FFIEC guidelines, exceeded 0.75% of total Citigroup 
assets as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011:December 31, 2012
ˆ˜˚˛˛
Cross-Border Claims on Third Parties
In billions of U.S. dollars
 BanksPublicPrivateTotal
Trading and  
short-term claims 
 (1)Investments  
in, and 
funding of local franchisesTotal 
cross-border  
outstandings (2) Commitments  (3)
United Kingdom$25.2 $0.3$25.6$51.1$45.2$Š$51.1$85.0

Germany
14.618.07.640.237.47.447.666.8

France14.64.825.544.941.7Š44.971.0

Cayman Islands0.2Š33.533.730.1Š33.7
2.3India4.81.67.914.312.218.432.7
5.5Netherlands (4)6.93.013.723.618.12.225.824.9

Brazil1.44.19.314.89.56.921.719.2

Italy (5)2.015.21.919.118.20.319.449.8

Japan (6)9.81.11.812.712.66.419.123.8
˜˚˘˚
Switzerland (7)2.62.73.89.17.29.919.018.7

Mexico
2.41.14.68.15.28.116.212.4
˛˜˘˜
Korea1.40.94.16.43.89.115.526.4

Australia (8)3.31.73.58.55.66.815.325.9

ˆˆ

ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
›˘
ˆ

ˆ

ˆ
…
ˆˆ
›˘ˆ
ˆ

ˆ121Differences Between Country Risk and Cross-Border RiskAs described in more detail in the sections above, there are significant 
differences between the reporting of country risk and cross-border risk. A 
general summary of the more significant differences is as follows:Country risk is the risk that an event within a country will impair the value of Citi™s franchise or adversely affect the ability of obligors within 
the country to honor their obligations to Citi. Country risk reporting in 
Citi™s internal risk management systems is based on the identification 
of the country where the client relationship, taken as a whole, is most 
directly exposed to the economic, financial, sociopolitical or legal risks. 
Generally, country risk includes the benefit of margin received as well as 
offsetting exposures and hedge positions. As such, country risk generally 
measures net exposure to a credit or market risk event. Cross-border risk, as defined by the FFIEC, focuses on the potential 
exposure if foreign governments take actions, such as enacting exchange 
controls, which prevent the conversion of local currency to non-local 
currency or restrict the remittance of funds outside the country. Unlike 
country risk, FFIEC cross-border risk measures exposure to the immediate 
obligors or counterparties domiciled in the given country or, if applicable, 
by the location of collateral or guarantors of the legally binding 
guarantees, generally without the benefit of margin received or hedge 
positions, and recognizes offsetting exposures only for certain products. The differences between the presentation of country risk and cross-border risk can be substantial, including the identification of the country of risk, as described above. In addition, some of the more significant differences by 
product are described below:
on fair value, netting receivables and payables under the same legally binding netting agreement, and recognizing the benefit of margin 
received under legally enforceable margin agreements and any hedge 
positions in place. For cross-border risk, these items are also reported 
based on fair value and allow for netting of receivables and payables if 
a legally binding netting agreement is in place, but only with the same 
specific counterparty, and do not recognize the benefit of margin received 
or hedges in place.For country risk, secured financing transactions, such as repurchase 
agreements and reverse repurchase agreements, as well as securities 
loaned and borrowed, are reported based on the net credit exposure 
arising from the transaction, which is typically small or zero given the 
over-collateralized structure of these transactions. For cross-border risk, 
reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowed are reported based 
on notional amounts and do not include the value of any collateral 
received (repurchase agreements and securities loaned are not included in 
cross-border risk reporting).For country risk, loans are reported net of hedges and collateral pledged 
under legally enforceable margin agreements. For cross-border risk, loans 
are reported without taking hedges into account.For country risk, securities in AFS and trading portfolios are reported on a 
net basis, netting long positions against short positions. For cross-border 
risk, securities in AFS and trading portfolios are not netted. For country risk, credit default swaps (CDS) are reported based on the 
net notional amount of CDS purchased and sold, assuming zero recovery 
from the underlying entity, and adjusted for any mark-to-market 
receivable or payable position. For cross-border risk, CDS are included 
based on the gross notional amount sold, and do not include any 
offsetting purchased CDS on the same underlying entity. Argentina and Venezuela Developments 
Citi operates in several countries with strict foreign exchange controls that 

limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/or transfer funds outside the country. In such cases, Citi could be exposed to a risk of loss in the 

event that the local currency devalues as compared to the U.S. dollar. 
ArgentinaSince 2011, the Argentine government has been tightening its foreign 
exchange controls. As a result, Citi™s access to U.S. dollars and other foreign 
currencies, which apply to capital repatriation efforts, certain operating 
expenses, and discretionary investments offshore, has become limited. 
In addition, beginning in January 2012, the Central Bank of Argentina 
increased its minimum capital requirements, which affects Citi™s ability to 
remit profits out of the country. As of December 31, 2012, Citi™s net investment in its Argentine operations 
was approximately $740 million, compared to $740 million as of 
December 31, 2011 and down from $800 million as of September 30, 2012. 
The decrease quarter-over-quarter was primarily the result of a dividend of 

approximately $65 million received by Citi in the fourth quarter of 2012. For 
the full year of 2012, Citi received dividends of $125 million. Citi uses the Argentine peso as the functional currency in Argentina and translates its financial statements into U.S. dollars using the official 
exchange rate as published by the Central Bank of Argentina, which 
continued to devalue its currency during the fourth quarter of 2012, from 
4.70 Argentine pesos to one U.S. dollar at September 30, 2012 to 4.90 
Argentine pesos to one U.S. dollar at December 31, 2012. It is generally 
expected that the devaluation of the Argentine peso could continue. The impact of devaluations of the Argentine peso on Citi™s net investment 
in Argentina is reported as a translation loss in stockholders™ equity offset, to 
the extent hedged, by:gains or losses recorded in stockholders™ equity on net investment hedges that have been designated as, and qualify for, hedge accounting under 
ASC 815 Derivatives and Hedging; and 
monetary assets or currency futures held in Argentina that do not 
qualify as net investment hedges under ASC 815.122At December 31, 2012, Citi had cumulative translation losses related to its investment in Argentina, net of qualifying net investment hedges, of approximately $1.04 billion (pretax), which were recorded 
in stockholders™ equity. The cumulative translation losses would not be reclassified into earnings unless realized upon sale or liquidation of Citi™s 

Argentine operations.While Citi currently uses the Argentine peso as the functional currency for its operations in Argentina, an increase in inflation resulting in a cumulative 
three-year inflation rate of 100% or more would result in a change in the 
functional currency to the U.S. dollar. Official inflation statistics published 

by INDEC, the Argentine government™s statistics institute, suggest an 

annual inflation rate of approximately 10% for each of the three years 
ended December 31, 2012, whereas private institutions, economists, and 
local labor unions calculate the inflation rate to be closer to 25% annually 
over the same period. Additionally, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) 

issued a declaration of censure against Argentina on February 1, 2013 in 
connection with its inaccurate inflation statistics and has called on Argentina 
to adopt remedial measures to address those inaccuracies. A change in the 
functional currency to the U.S. dollar would result in future devaluations 
of the Argentine peso being recorded in earnings for Citi™s Argentine peso-denominated assets and liabilities.  As noted above, Citi hedges currency risk in its net investment in Argentina to the extent possible and prudent. Suitable hedging alternatives have 
become less available and more expensive and may not be available to offset 
any future currency devaluations that could occur. At December 31, 2012, 

Citi hedged approximately $200 million of its net investment using foreign 
currency forwards that are recorded as net investment hedges under ASC 
815. This compared to approximately $230 million and $300 million as 
of December 31, 2011 and September 30, 2012, respectively. The decrease 

in the net investment hedge year-over-year and sequentially was driven by 

significantly increased hedging costs.In addition, as of December 31, 2012, Citi hedged foreign currency risk associated with its net investment by holding in its Argentine operations both 
U.S.-dollar-denominated net monetary assets of approximately $280
 million (compared to $110 million and $200 million as of December 31, 2011 
and September 30, 2012, respectively) and foreign currency futures with a 
notional value of approximately $170 million (compared to $100 million as 
of September 30, 2012), neither of which qualify as net investment hedges 
under ASC 815. The ongoing economic and political situation in Argentina could lead to further governmental intervention or regulatory restrictions on foreign 
investments in Argentina, including the potential redenomination of 
certain U.S.-dollar assets and liabilities into Argentine pesos, which could be 
accompanied by a devaluation of the Argentine peso. Any redenomination could occur at different rates (asymmetric redenomination) and/or 
rates other than the official foreign exchange rate. The U.S.-dollar assets 
and liabilities subject to redenomination, as well as any gains or losses 
resulting from redenomination, are subject to substantial uncertainty 
(see ﬁCountry RiskŠRedenomination and Devaluation Riskﬂ above 
for a general discussion of redenomination and devaluation risk). As of 
December 31, 2012, Citi had aggregate U.S.-dollar-denominated assets in Argentina of approximately $1.5 billion. VenezuelaSince 2003, the Venezuelan government has enacted foreign exchange 
controls. Under these controls, the Venezuelan government™s Foreign 
Currency Administration Commission (CADIVI) purchases and sells foreign 
currency at an official foreign exchange rate fixed by the government (as of 
December 31, 2012, the official exchange rate was fixed at 4.3 bolivars to one 
U.S. dollar). These restrictions have limited Citi™s ability to obtain U.S. dollars in Venezuela at the official foreign currency rate. Citi has not been able to 
acquire U.S. dollars from CADIVI since 2008.Citi uses the official exchange rate to re-measure foreign currency transactions in the financial statements of its Venezuelan operations (which use the U.S. dollar as the functional currency) into U.S. dollars, as the official 
exchange rate is the only rate legally available in the country, despite the 

limited availability of U.S. dollars from CADIVI and although the official rate 
may not necessarily be reflective of economic reality. Re-measurement of 

Citi™s bolivar-denominated assets and liabilities due to change in the official 

exchange rate is recorded in earnings. At December 31, 2012, Citi™s net investment in Venezuela was approximately 
$340 million (compared to $250 million at December 31, 2011 and 

$300 million at September 30, 2012), which included net monetary assets 

denominated in Venezuelan bolivars of approximately $290 million 

(compared to $240 million at December 31, 2011 and $270 million at 

September 30, 2012). 
On February 8, 2013 the Venezuelan government devalued the official 
exchange rate from 4.3 bolivars per dollar to 6.3 bolivars per dollar. 

This devaluation resulted in a foreign exchange loss of approximately 
$100 million (pretax) on Citi Venezuela™s net bolivar-denominated assets 
that will be recorded in earnings in the first quarter of 2013. Subsequent to 
the devaluation, Citi™s net investment in Venezuela declined to approximately 

$240 million, and Citi™s net bolivar-denominated assets declined to 

approximately $190 million.123The following discussion relates to the derivative obligor information and the fair valuation for derivatives and structured debt. See Note 23 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Citi™s 
derivative activities.The fair value adjustments applied by Citigroup to its derivative carrying 
values consist of the following items:Liquidity adjustments are applied to items in Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair-value hierarchy (see Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for more details) to ensure that the fair value reflects the price at which 
the net open risk position could be liquidated. The liquidity reserve is 
based on the bid/offer spread for an instrument. When Citi has elected to 
measure certain portfolios of financial investments, such as derivatives, 
on the basis of the net open risk position, the liquidity reserve is adjusted 
to take into account the size of the position.Credit valuation adjustments (CVA) are applied to over-the-counter 
derivative instruments, in which the base valuation generally discounts 
expected cash flows using the relevant base interest rate curves. Because 
not all counterparties have the same credit risk as that implied by the 
relevant base curve, a CVA is necessary to incorporate the market view of 
both counterparty credit risk and Citi™s own credit risk in the valuation.Citi™s CVA methodology is composed of two steps. First, the exposure 
profile for each counterparty is determined using the terms of all individual derivative positions and a Monte Carlo simulation or other quantitative 
analysis to generate a series of expected cash flows at future points in time. 
The calculation of this exposure profile considers the effect of credit risk 
mitigants, including pledged cash or other collateral and any legal right 
of offset that exists with a counterparty through arrangements such as 
netting agreements. Individual derivative contracts that are subject to an 
enforceable master netting agreement with a counterparty are aggregated 
for this purpose, since it is those aggregate net cash flows that are subject to 
nonperformance risk. This process identifies specific, point-in-time future 
cash flows that are subject to nonperformance risk, rather than using the 
current recognized net asset or liability as a basis to measure the CVA.
Second, market-based views of default probabilities derived from observed credit spreads in the credit default swap (CDS) market are applied 
to the expected future cash flows determined in step one. Citi™s own-credit 

CVA is determined using Citi-specific CDS spreads for the relevant tenor. 

Generally, counterparty CVA is determined using CDS spread indices for each 

credit rating and tenor. For certain identified netting sets where individual 

analysis is practicable (e.g., exposures to counterparties with liquid CDS), 
counterparty-specific CDS spreads are used.The CVA adjustment is designed to incorporate a market view of the credit 
risk inherent in the derivative portfolio. However, most derivative instruments 

are negotiated bilateral contracts and are not commonly transferred to 
third parties. Derivative instruments are normally settled contractually or, if 
terminated early, are terminated at a value negotiated bilaterally between the 

counterparties. Therefore, the CVA (both counterparty and own-credit) may 

not be realized upon a settlement or termination in the normal course of 
business. In addition, all or a portion of the CVA may be reversed or otherwise 

adjusted in future periods in the event of changes in the credit risk of Citi or 
its counterparties, or changes in the credit mitigants (collateral and netting 
agreements) associated with the derivative instruments.The table below summarizes the CVA applied to the fair value of derivative 
instruments for the periods indicated:Credit valuation adjustment 
contra-liability (contra-asset)In millions of dollarsDecember 31,2012ˇ
$(2,971)


918Total CVAŠderivative instruments
$(2,053)

Own debt valuation adjustments (DVA) are recognized on Citi™s debt 
liabilities for which the fair value option (FVO) has been elected using Citi™s 
credit spreads observed in the bond market. Accordingly, the fair value of debt 
liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected (other than non-
recourse and similar liabilities) is impacted by the narrowing or widening of 
Citi™s credit spreads. Changes in fair value resulting from changes in Citi™s 
instrument-specific credit risk are estimated by incorporating Citi™s current 
credit spreads observable in the bond market into the relevant valuation 
technique used to value each liability.The table below summarizes pretax gains (losses) related to changes in CVA on derivative instruments, net of hedges, and DVA on own FVO debt for 

the periods indicated:Credit/debt valuation 
adjustment gain (loss)In millions of dollars2012
$805

š
(1,126)•†˘Total CVAŠderivative instruments 
(1)$(321)
˘˘
˜’
$(2,009)

Total CVA and DVA excluding monolines
$(2,330)


2Total CVA and DVA
$(2,328)

ˇThe CVA and DVA amounts shown in the table above do not include the 
effect of counterparty credit risk embedded in non-derivative instruments. 
Losses on non-derivative instruments, such as bonds and loans, related to 
counterparty credit risk are also not included in the table above.124Citigroup makes markets in and trades a range of credit derivatives on behalf of clients and in connection with its risk management activities. Through 
these contracts, Citi either purchases or writes protection on either a single-
name or portfolio basis. Citi primarily uses credit derivatives to help mitigate 
credit risk in its corporate loan portfolio and other cash positions, and to 
facilitate client transactions.Credit derivatives generally require that the seller of credit protection make payments to the buyer upon the occurrence of predefined events 
(settlement triggers). These settlement triggers, which are defined by the 
form of the derivative and the referenced credit, are generally limited to 
the market standard of failure to pay indebtedness and bankruptcy (or 
comparable events) of the reference credit and, in a more limited range of 
transactions, debt restructuring.Credit derivative transactions referring to emerging market reference credits will also typically include additional settlement triggers to cover 
the acceleration of indebtedness and the risk of repudiation or a payment 
moratorium. In certain transactions on a portfolio of referenced credits 
or asset-backed securities, the seller of protection may not be required 
to make payment until a specified amount of losses has occurred with 
respect to the portfolio and/or may only be required to pay for losses up to a 
specified amount.The fair values shown below are prior to the application of any netting agreements, cash collateral, and market or credit valuation adjustments.Citi actively participates in trading a variety of credit derivatives products as both an active two-way market-maker for clients and to manage credit 
risk. The majority of this activity was transacted with other financial 
intermediaries, including both banks and broker-dealers. Citi generally has a mismatch between the total notional amounts of protection purchased 
and sold and it may hold the reference assets directly, rather than entering 

into offsetting credit derivative contracts as and when desired. The open risk 
exposures from credit derivative contracts are largely matched after certain 
cash positions in reference assets are considered and after notional amounts 
are adjusted, either to a duration-based equivalent basis or to reflect the level 
of subordination in tranched structures.Citi actively monitors its counterparty credit risk in credit derivative contracts. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, approximately 
96% of the gross receivables are from counterparties with which Citi 
maintains collateral agreements. A majority of Citi™s top 15 counterparties 

(by receivable balance owed to Citi) are banks, financial institutions or other 
dealers. Contracts with these counterparties do not include ratings-based 
termination events. However, counterparty ratings downgrades may have 

an incremental effect by lowering the threshold at which Citi may call for 
additional collateral.125The following tables summarize the key characteristics of Citi™s credit derivatives portfolio by counterparty and derivative form as of December 31, 2012 and 
December 31, 2011:December 31, 2012
Fair values
NotionalsIn millions of dollarsReceivablePayableBeneficiaryGuarantor
By industry/counterparty
$34,189$31,960$914,542$863,411

13,30214,098321,418304,968
5Š141
Š2101644,0223,241
6,6716,486194,166174,874
Total by industry/counterparty
$54,377$52,708$1,434,289$1,346,494
By instrument

$54,275$51,316$1,421,122$1,345,162
−
1021,39213,1671,332
Total by instrument
$54,377$52,708$1,434,289$1,346,494
By rating

$17,236$16,252$694,590$637,343

37,14136,456739,699709,151
Total by rating
$54,377$52,708$1,434,289$1,346,494
By maturity
$4,826$5,324$311,202$287,670
37,91137,3571,014,459965,059
11,64010,027108,62893,765
Total by maturity
$54,377$52,708$1,434,289$1,346,494
ˇDecember 31, 2011
Fair values
NotionalsIn millions of dollarsReceivablePayableBeneficiaryGuarantor
By industry/counterparty




”
”

Total by industry/counterparty

By instrument


−

Total by instrument

By rating




Total by rating

By maturity



Total by maturity

ˇ
126Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains a summary of Citigroup™s significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently 
issued accounting pronouncements. These policies, as well as estimates made 
by management, are integral to the presentation of Citi™s results of operations 
and financial condition. While all of these policies require a certain level of 
management judgment and estimates, this section highlights and discusses 
the significant accounting policies that require management to make highly 
difficult, complex or subjective judgments and estimates at times regarding 
matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to change (see also 
ﬁRisk FactorsŠBusiness and Operational Risksﬂ). Management has 
discussed each of these significant accounting policies, the related estimates, 
and its judgments with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
Additional information about these policies can be found in Note 1 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.Citigroup holds debt and equity securities, derivatives, retained interests 
in securitizations, investments in private equity and other financial 
instruments. In addition, Citi purchases securities under agreements to 
resell (reverse repos) and sells securities under agreements to repurchase 
(repos). Citigroup holds its investments, trading assets and liabilities, and 
resale and repurchase agreements on the Consolidated Balance Sheet to meet 
customer needs and to manage liquidity needs, interest rate risks and private 
equity investing.Substantially all of the assets and liabilities described in the preceding paragraph are reflected at fair value on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. In addition, certain loans, short-term borrowings, long-term debt and 
deposits as well as certain securities borrowed and loaned positions that are 
collateralized with cash are carried at fair value. Approximately 42.6% and 
38.9% of total assets, and 16.0% and 15.0% of total liabilities, were accounted 
for at fair value as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
When available, Citi generally uses quoted market prices to determine fair value and classifies such items within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy 
established under ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures
 
(see Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). If quoted market 
prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed 
valuation models that use, where possible, current market-based or 
independently sourced market parameters, such as interest rates, currency 
rates and option volatilities. Where a model is internally developed and 
used to price a significant product, it is subject to validation and testing 
by Citi™s separate model verification group. Such models are often based 

on a discounted cash flow analysis. In addition, items valued using such 
internally generated valuation techniques are classified according to the 
lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation. Thus, an 
item may be classified in Level 3 even though there may be some significant 
inputs that are readily observable.The credit crisis caused some markets to become illiquid, thus reducing the availability of certain observable data used by Citi™s valuation techniques. 

This illiquidity, in at least certain markets, continued through 2012. When 

or if liquidity returns to these markets, the valuations will revert to using 
the related observable inputs in verifying internally calculated values. For 
additional information on Citigroup™s fair value analysis, see Notes 25 and 26 

to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Recognition of Changes in Fair ValueChanges in the valuation of the trading assets and liabilities, as well as all 
other assets (excluding available-for-sale securities (AFS) and derivatives 
in qualifying cash flow hedging relationships) and liabilities carried at fair 
value, are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Changes in 
the valuation of AFS, other than write-offs and credit impairments, and the 
effective portion of changes in the valuation of derivatives in qualifying 
cash flow hedging relationships generally are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI), which is a component of 
Stockholders™ equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. A full description of 
Citi™s policies and procedures relating to recognition of changes in fair value 
can be found in Notes 1, 25 and 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Evaluation of Other-than-Temporary ImpairmentCiti conducts and documents periodic reviews of all securities with unrealized 
losses to evaluate whether the impairment is other-than-temporary. Under 
the guidance for debt securities, other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) 
is recognized in earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Income for debt 
securities that Citi has an intent to sell or that Citi believes it is more-likely-
than-not that it will be required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost 
basis. For those securities that Citi does not intend to sell nor expect to be 
required to sell, credit-related impairment is recognized in earnings, with the 
non-credit-related impairment recorded in AOCI.An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses that are 
determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in AOCI for 
AFS securities, while such losses related to held-to-maturity (HTM) securities 
are not recorded, as these investments are carried at their amortized cost (less 
any OTTI). For securities transferred to HTM from Trading account assets
, 
amortized cost is defined as the fair value amount of the securities at the date 
of transfer plus any accretion income and less any impairments recognized 
in earnings subsequent to transfer. For securities transferred to HTM from 

AFS, amortized cost is defined as the original purchase cost, plus or minus 
any accretion or amortization of a purchase discount or premium, less any 
impairment recognized in earnings.127Regardless of the classification of the securities as AFS or HTM, Citi assesses each position with an unrealized loss for OTTI.Management assesses equity method investments with fair value less than carrying value for OTTI, as discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For investments that management does not plan to sell 
prior to recovery of value, or Citi is not likely to be required to sell, various 
factors are considered in assessing OTTI. For investments that Citi plans to 
sell prior to recovery of value, or would likely be required to sell and there 
is no expectation that the fair value will recover prior to the expected sale 
date, the full impairment would be recognized in the Consolidated Statement 
of Income. The following paragraphs discuss Citi™s significant OTTI equity 

method investments during 2012.AkbankIn March 2012, Citi decided to reduce its ownership interest in Akbank T.A.S., 
an equity investment in Turkey (Akbank), to below 10%.  As of March 31, 2012, Citi held a 20% equity interest in Akbank, which it purchased in 
January 2007, accounted for as an equity method investment. As a result of its decision to sell its share holdings in Akbank, in the first quarter of 
2012 Citi recorded an impairment charge related to its total investment 
in Akbank amounting to approximately $1.2 billion pretax ($763 million 
after-tax). This impairment charge was primarily driven by the recognition of all respective net investment foreign currency hedging and translation 
losses previously reflected in AOCI as well as a reduction in carrying value 
of the investment to reflect the market price of Akbank™s shares. The impairment charge was recorded in other-than-temporary impairment losses 
on investments in the Consolidated Statement of Income. During the second 
quarter of 2012, Citi sold a 10.1% stake in Akbank, resulting in a loss on sale 
of $424 million ($274 million after-tax), recorded within other revenue. As of 
December 31, 2012, the remaining 9.9% stake in Akbank is recorded within 
marketable equity securities available-for-sale.MSSBOn September 17, 2012, Citi sold to Morgan Stanley a 14% interest (14% 
Interest) in MSSB to which Morgan Stanley exercised its purchase option 
on June 1, 2012. Morgan Stanley paid to Citi $1.89 billion in cash as the 
purchase price of the 14% Interest. The purchase price was based on an 
implied 100% valuation of MSSB of $13.5 billion, as agreed between Morgan 
Stanley and Citi pursuant to an agreement dated September 11, 2012 (for 
additional information, see Citi™s Form 8-K filed with the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission on September 11, 2012 and ﬁCiti HoldingsŠ
Brokerage and Asset Managementﬂ above). The related approximate 
$4.5 billion in deposits were transferred to Morgan Stanley at no premium, as agreed between the parties.In addition, Morgan Stanley has agreed, subject to obtaining regulatory approval, to purchase Citi™s remaining 35% interest in MSSB no later than June 1, 2015 at a purchase price of $4.725 billion, which is based on the 
same implied 100% valuation of MSSB of $13.5 billion.Prior to the September 2012 sale, Citi™s carrying value of its 49% interest in 
MSSB was approximately $11.3 billion. As a result of the agreement entered 
into with Morgan Stanley on September 11, 2012, Citi recorded a charge 
to net income in the third quarter of 2012 of approximately $2.9 billion 
after-tax ($4.7 billion pretax), consisting of (i) a charge recorded within 

Other revenue of approximately $800 million after-tax ($1.3 billion pretax), 

representing a loss on sale of the 14% Interest, and (ii) an other-than-

temporary impairment of the carrying value of its remaining 35% interest in 
MSSB of approximately $2.1 billion after-tax ($3.4 billion pretax).
As of December 31, 2012, Citi continues to account for its remaining 35% interest in MSSB under the equity method, with the carrying value capped at 
the agreed selling price of $4.725 billion.CVA/DVA MethodologyASC 820-10 requires that Citi™s own credit risk be considered in determining 
the market value of any Citi liability carried at fair value. These liabilities 
include derivative instruments as well as debt and other liabilities for which 
the fair value option has been elected. The credit valuation adjustment (CVA) 
is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as a reduction or increase in 
the associated derivative asset or liability to arrive at the fair value (carrying 
value) of the derivative asset or liability. The debt valuation adjustment 
(DVA) is recognized on the balance sheet as a reduction or increase in 
the associated fair value option debt liability to arrive at the fair value of 
the liability. For additional information, see ﬁFair Value Adjustments for 
Derivatives and Structured Debtﬂ above.Allowance for Funded Lending Commitments
Management provides reserves for an estimate of probable losses inherent 
in the funded loan portfolio on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the 
form of an allowance for loan losses. These reserves are established in 
accordance with Citigroup™s credit reserve policies, as approved by the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Citi™s Chief Risk Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer review the adequacy of the credit loss reserves each 
quarter with representatives from the risk management and finance staffs 
for each applicable business area. Applicable business areas include those 
having classifiably managed portfolios, where internal credit-risk ratings 
are assigned (primarily Institutional Clients Group and Global Consumer 
Banking), or modified Consumer loans, where concessions were granted due 
to the borrowers™ financial difficulties.The above-mentioned representatives covering these respective business areas present recommended reserve balances for their funded and unfunded 
lending portfolios along with supporting quantitative and qualitative data. 
The quantitative data include:128Estimated Probable Losses for Non-Performing, Non-Homogeneous Exposures Within a Business Line™s Classifiably Managed Portfolio and 
Impaired Smaller-Balance Homogeneous Loans Whose Terms Have 
Been Modified Due to the Borrowers™ Financial Difficulties, Where It Was 

Determined That a Concession Was Granted to the Borrower.
Consideration may be given to the following, as appropriate, when 
determining this estimate: (i) the present value of expected future cash flows 
discounted at the loan™s original effective rate; (ii) the borrower™s overall 
financial condition, resources and payment record; and (iii) the prospects 
for support from financially responsible guarantors or the realizable value of 
any collateral. When impairment is measured based on the present value of 
expected future cash flows, the entire change in present value is recorded in 
the Provision for loan losses.Statistically Calculated Losses Inherent in the Classifiably Managed Portfolio for Performing and De Minimus Non-Performing Exposures.
The calculation is based upon: (i) Citigroup™s internal system of credit-
risk ratings, which are analogous to the risk ratings of the major credit 
rating agencies; and (ii) historical default and loss data, including rating 
agency information regarding default rates from 1983 to 2011, and 
internal data dating to the early 1970s on severity of losses in the event of 
default. Adjustments may be made to this data. Such adjustments include: 
(i) statistically calculated estimates to cover the historical fluctuation 
of the default rates over the credit cycle, the historical variability of loss 
severity among defaulted loans, and the degree to which there are large 
obligor concentrations in the global portfolio; and (ii) adjustments made 
for specifically known items, such as current environmental factors and 
credit trends.In addition, representatives from both the risk management and finance staffs that cover business areas with delinquency-managed portfolios 
containing smaller homogeneous loans present their recommended reserve 
balances based upon leading credit indicators, including loan delinquencies 
and changes in portfolio size, as well as economic trends, including housing 
prices, unemployment and GDP. This methodology is applied separately for each individual product within each different geographic region in which 
these portfolios exist.This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. The frequency of default, risk ratings, loss recovery rates, the size and 
diversity of individual large credits, and the ability of borrowers with foreign 
currency obligations to obtain the foreign currency necessary for orderly debt 
servicing, among other things, are all taken into account during this review. 

Changes in these estimates could have a direct impact on Citi™s credit costs 

in any quarter and could result in a change in the allowance. Changes to the 
allowance are recorded in the Provision for loan losses.Allowance for Unfunded Lending Commitments
A similar approach to the allowance for loan losses is used for calculating 
a reserve for the expected losses related to unfunded loan commitments 
and standby letters of credit. This reserve is classified on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet in Other liabilities. Changes to the allowance for unfunded 
lending commitments are recorded in the Provision for unfunded 
lending commitments.For a further description of the loan loss reserve and related accounts, see Notes 1 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citigroup securitizes a number of different asset classes as a means of 
strengthening its balance sheet and accessing competitive financing rates in 
the market. Under these securitization programs, assets are transferred into 
a trust and used as collateral by the trust to obtain financing. The cash flows 
from assets in the trust service to the corresponding trust liabilities and equity 
interests. If the structure of the trust meets certain accounting guidelines, 
trust assets are treated as sold and are no longer reflected as assets of Citi. 
If these guidelines are not met, the assets continue to be recorded as Citi™s 
assets, with the financing activity recorded as liabilities on Citi™s Consolidated 
Balance Sheet.Citigroup also assists its clients in securitizing their financial assets and packages and securitizes financial assets purchased in the financial markets. 
Citi may also provide administrative, asset management, underwriting, 
liquidity facilities and/or other services to the resulting securitization entities 
and may continue to service some of these financial assets.Citigroup has recorded on its Consolidated Balance Sheet goodwill 
of $25.7 billion (1.4% of assets) and $25.4 billion (1.4% of assets) at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually on July 1. Citi is also required to test goodwill for 
impairment whenever events or circumstances make it more-likely-than-not 
that impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change 
in the business climate, a decision to sell or dispose of all or a significant 
portion of a reporting unit, or a significant decline in Citi™s stock price. No 
goodwill impairment was recorded during 2010, 2011 and 2012.129As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as of December 31, 2012, Citigroup consists of the following business segments: Global Consumer Banking, Institutional Clients Group, Corporate/
Other and Citi Holdings. Goodwill impairment testing is performed at 
the level below the business segment (referred to as a reporting unit). 
Goodwill is allocated to Citi™s reporting units at the date the goodwill is 

initially recorded. Once goodwill has been allocated to the reporting units, 
it generally no longer retains its identification with a particular acquisition, 
but instead becomes identified with the reporting unit as a whole. As a 
result, all of the fair value of each reporting unit is available to support the 
allocated goodwill. Citi™s nine reporting units at December 31, 2012 were 

North America Regional Consumer Banking, EMEA Regional Consumer 
Banking, Asia Regional Consumer Banking, Latin America Regional 
Consumer Banking, Securities and Banking, Transaction Services, 

Brokerage and Asset Management, Local Consumer LendingŠCards
 
and Local Consumer LendingŠOther.Citi™s reporting unit structure in 2012 was the same as the reporting unit 
structure in 2011, although certain underlying businesses were transferred 
between certain reporting units in the first quarter of 2012. As of January 1, 2012, a substantial majority of the Citi retail services business previously 
included within the Local Consumer LendingŠCards
 reporting unit was transferred to North AmericaŠRegional Consumer Banking. In addition, 
certain small businesses included within the Local Consumer LendingŠ
Cards
 reporting unit were transferred to Local Consumer LendingŠOther. 
Additionally, an insurance business in El Salvador within 
Brokerage and Asset Management was transferred to Latin America Regional Consumer 
Banking. Goodwill affected by these transfers was reassigned from Local Consumer LendingŠCards
 and Brokerage and Asset Management, 
respectively, to those reporting units that received the businesses using a 

relative fair value approach. Subsequent to January 1, 2012, goodwill has 
been allocated to disposals and tested for impairment under the reporting 
unit structure reflecting these transfers. An interim goodwill impairment 
test was performed on the impacted reporting units as of January 1, 2012, 
resulting in no impairment.Under ASC 350, IntangiblesŠGoodwill and Other, the Company has an option to assess qualitative factors to determine if it is necessary to perform 
the goodwill impairment test. If, after assessing the totality of events or 
circumstances, the Company determines that it is not more-likely-than-not 
that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, no 
further testing is necessary. If, however, the Company determines that it is 

more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its 
carrying amount, then the Company is required to perform the two-step 
goodwill impairment test.The first step requires a comparison of the fair value of the individual reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value of 
the reporting unit is in excess of the carrying value, the related goodwill 
is considered not to be impaired and no further analysis is necessary. If 

the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, there is an 
indication of potential impairment and a second step of testing is performed 
to measure the amount of impairment, if any, for that reporting unit.
If required, the second step involves calculating the implied fair value of goodwill for each of the affected reporting units. The implied fair value 
of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill 
recognized in a business combination. The implied fair value is the excess 
of the fair value of the reporting unit determined in step one over the fair 
value of the net assets and identifiable intangibles. If the amount of goodwill 
allocated to the reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill 
in the pro forma purchase price allocation, an impairment charge is 
recorded for the excess. A recognized impairment charge cannot exceed the 
amount of goodwill allocated to a reporting unit and cannot subsequently be 
reversed even if the fair value of the reporting unit recovers.The carrying value used in both steps of the impairment test for each reporting unit is derived by allocating Citigroup™s total stockholders™ equity 

to each of Citi™s components (defined below) based on the risk capital 

assessed for each component. Refer to the ﬁRisk Capitalﬂ section above for 
further discussion. The assigned carrying value of the nine reporting units, 
the Special Asset Pool and Corporate/Other (together the ﬁcomponentsﬂ) 
is equal to Citigroup™s total stockholders™ equity. In allocating Citigroup™s 

total stockholders™ equity to each component, the reported goodwill and 
intangibles associated with each reporting unit are specifically included in 
the carrying amount of the respective reporting units and the remaining 
stockholders™ equity is then allocated to each component based on the 
relative risk capital associated with each component.Goodwill impairment testing involves management judgment, requiring an assessment of whether the carrying value of the reporting unit can be 
supported by the fair value of the individual reporting unit using widely 
accepted valuation techniques, such as the market approach (earnings 
multiples and/or transaction multiples) and/or the income approach 
(discounted cash flow (DCF) method). In applying these methodologies, Citi utilizes a number of factors, including actual operating results, future 
business plans, economic projections, and market data. Citi prepares a 
formal three-year strategic plan for its businesses on an annual basis. These 
projections incorporate certain external economic projections developed at 
the point in time the plan is developed. For the purpose of performing any 
impairment test, the most recent three-year forecast available is updated by 
Citi to reflect current economic conditions as of the testing date. Citi used 
the updated long-range financial forecasts as a basis for its annual goodwill 
impairment test on July 1, 2012.130Management may engage an independent valuation specialist to assist in Citi™s valuation process. Citigroup engaged an independent valuation 
specialist in 2011 and 2012 to assist in Citi™s valuation for most of the 

reporting units employing both the market approach and DCF method. Citi 
believes that the DCF method, using management projections for the selected 
reporting units and an appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, is most 
reflective of a market participant™s view of fair values given current market 

conditions. For the reporting units where both methods were utilized in 2011 
and 2012, the resulting fair values were relatively consistent and appropriate 
weighting was given to outputs from both methods. The DCF method used at the time of each impairment test used discount rates that Citi believes adequately reflected the risk and uncertainty in the financial markets generally and specifically in the internally generated cash 
flow projections. The DCF method employs a capital asset pricing model in 
estimating the discount rate. Citi continues to value the remaining reporting 
units where it believes the risk of impairment to be low, using primarily the market approach.Citi performed its annual goodwill impairment test as of July 1, 2012. The results of the 2012 annual impairment test validated that the fair values 
exceeded the carrying values for the reporting units that had goodwill at 
the testing date. No interim goodwill impairment tests were required to be 
performed during 2012, outside of the test performed as of January 1, 2012, 
as discussed above.Since none of Citi™s reporting units are publicly traded, individual 
reporting unit fair value determinations cannot be directly correlated to 
Citigroup™s common stock price. The sum of the fair values of the reporting 

units at July 1, 2012 exceeded the overall market capitalization of Citi as of 
July 1, 2012. However, Citi believes that it was not meaningful to reconcile 

the sum of the fair values of its reporting units to its market capitalization 
due to several factors. The market capitalization of Citigroup reflects the 
execution risk in a transaction involving Citigroup due to its size. However, 

the individual reporting units™ fair values are not subject to the same level of 
execution risk or a business model that is perceived to be as complex.While no impairment was noted in step one of Citi™s
 Local Consumer LendingŠCards
 reporting unit impairment test as of July 1, 2012, goodwill 
present in the reporting unit may be particularly sensitive to further 
deterioration in economic conditions. Under the market approach for 
valuing this reporting unit, the key assumption is the price multiple. The 
selection of the multiple considers operating performance and financial 
condition such as return on equity and net income growth of Local Consumer LendingŠCards
 as compared to those of selected guideline 
companies. Among other factors, the level and expected growth in return on 
tangible equity relative to those of the guideline companies is considered. 
Since the guideline company prices used are on a minority interest basis, the 
selection of the multiple considers the guideline acquisition prices, which 
reflect control rights and privileges in arriving at a multiple that reflects an 
appropriate control premium.For the Local Consumer LendingŠCards
 valuation under the income approach, the assumptions used as the basis for the model include cash flows 
for the forecasted period, assumptions embedded in arriving at an estimation 
of the terminal year value and discount rate. The cash flows are estimated 
based on management™s most recent projections available as of the testing 

date, giving consideration to target equity capital requirements based on 
selected guideline companies for the reporting unit. In arriving at a terminal 
value for Local Consumer LendingŠCards
, using 2015 as the terminal 
year, the assumptions used included a long-term growth rate. The discount 

rate used in the analysis is based on the reporting units™ estimated cost of 
equity capital computed under the capital asset pricing model.If the future were to differ adversely from management™s best estimate 
of key economic assumptions and associated cash flows were to decrease 
by a small margin, Citi could potentially experience future impairment 
charges with respect to the $111 million of goodwill remaining in its Local 
Consumer LendingŠCards
 reporting unit. Any such charge, by itself, 
would not negatively affect the Company™s regulatory capital ratios, tangible 

common equity (TCE) or liquidity position.See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on goodwill, including the changes in the goodwill 
balance period-over-period and the reporting unit goodwill balances as 

of December 31, 2012.Overview
Citi is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S. and its states and local 
municipalities, and the foreign jurisdictions in which Citi operates. These 
tax laws are complex and are subject to differing interpretations by the 
taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. Disputes over 
interpretations of the tax laws may be subject to review and adjudication by 
the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or may be settled with the 
taxing authority upon audit.In establishing a provision for income tax expense, Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently 
complex tax laws. Citi must also make estimates about when in the future 
certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, 
both domestic and foreign. Deferred taxes are recorded for the future 
consequences of events that have been recognized in the financial statements 
or tax returns, based upon enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred tax assets 
(DTAs) are recognized subject to management™s judgment that realization is 

more-likely-than-not. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for a further discussion of Citi™s tax provision and related income tax assets 

and liabilities.131DTAsAt December 31, 2012, Citi had recorded net DTAs of $55.3 billion, an 
increase of $3.8 billion from $51.5 billion at December 31, 2011. The 
increase in total DTAs year-over-year was due, in large part, to the continued 
negative impact of Citi Holdings on U.S. taxable income, including the MSSB 
loss and other-than-temporary impairment in the third quarter of 2012. The 
following table summarizes Citi™s net DTAs balance at December 31, 2012 
and 2011:DTAs balance
˜−
In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012

U.S. federal 
(1)
$Š
”

22.0
2.622.00.9Total U.S. federal
$47.5

State and localﬂ
$1.3


0.62.6Total state and local
$4.5

Foreign

$0.2


1.21.9Total foreign
$3.3

Total 
(3)$55.3

ˇ


˜−
ˇ
‘

ˇ
−
−
ˇ
While Citi™s net total DTAs increased year-over-year, the time remaining for 
utilization has shortened, given the passage of time, particularly with respect 
to the foreign tax credit (FTC) component of the DTAs (see discussion below). 

Realization of the DTAs will continue to be driven by Citi™s ability to generate 

U.S. taxable earnings in the carry-forward periods, including through actions 
that optimize Citi™s U.S. taxable earnings. Citi does not expect a significant 

reduction in the balance of its net DTAs during 2013.
Although realization is not assured, Citi believes that the realization of the recognized net DTAs of $55.3 billion at December 31, 2012 is more-

likely-than-not based upon (i) expectations as to future taxable income in 
the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise, and (ii) available tax planning 

strategies (as defined in ASC 740, Income Taxes
) that would be implemented, 
if necessary, to prevent a carry-forward from expiring, each as discussed 

further below. In general, Citi would need to generate approximately 

$112 billion of U.S. taxable income during the respective carry-forward periods, substantially all of which must be generated during the FTC carry-
forward periods (as discussed below), to fully realize its U.S. federal, state and 
local DTAs.As referenced above, Citi has concluded that there are two components of positive evidence that support the full realizability of its DTAs. First, 

Citi forecasts sufficient U.S. taxable income in the carry-forward periods, 
exclusive of ASC 740 tax planning strategies, although Citi™s estimated future 

taxable income has decreased due to the ongoing challenging economic 
environment, which will continue to be subject to overall market and 
global economic conditions. Citi™s forecasted taxable income incorporates 

geographic business forecasts and taxable income adjustments to those 
forecasts (e.g., U.S. tax exempt income, loan loss reserves deductible for U.S. 
tax reporting in subsequent years), and actions intended to optimize its U.S. 
taxable earnings.Second, Citi has sufficient tax planning strategies available to it under ASC 740 that would be implemented, if necessary, to prevent a carry-forward 

from expiring. These strategies include repatriating low-taxed foreign source 
earnings for which an assertion that the earnings have been indefinitely 
reinvested has not been made, accelerating U.S. taxable income into, or 
deferring U.S. tax deductions out of, the latter years of the carry-forward 
period (e.g., selling appreciated intangible assets, electing straight-line 
depreciation), accelerating deductible temporary differences outside the U.S., 
and selling certain assets that produce tax-exempt income, while purchasing 
assets that produce fully taxable income. Also, the sale or restructuring of 
certain businesses can produce significant U.S. taxable income within the 
relevant carry-forward periods.In addition, Citi monitors the level of its investments in foreign subsidiaries for which it has made an indefinite investment assertion 
under ASC 740 (see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for 
information on the amount of such assertions as of December 31, 2012).  Citi could decide to indefinitely reinvest a lesser amount of its future earnings in 
these foreign subsidiaries. Such a decision would increase Citi™s tax provision on these foreign subsidiary earnings to the higher U.S. tax rate and thus 
reduce Citi™s after-tax earnings.
132Based upon the foregoing discussion, Citi believes the U.S. federal and New York state and city NOL carry-forward period of 20 years provides enough 
time to fully utilize the DTAs pertaining to the existing NOL carry-forwards, 

as set forth in the table above, and any NOL that would be created by the 
reversal of the future net deductions that have not yet been taken on a tax 
return.As noted in the table above, Citi™s FTC carry-forwards were $22.0 billion as 
of December 31, 2012, compared to $15.8 billion as of December 31, 2011. 
Over half of the FTC increase year-over-year was due to specific tax planning 

actions involving the payment of dividends from Citi™s foreign subsidiaries.
The U.S. FTC carry-forward period is 10 years and represents the most time-sensitive component of Citi™s DTAs. The table below sets forth the 

expiration dates for Citi™s FTCs as of December 31, 2012 and 2011:
In billions of dollarsYear of expiration
Dec. 31, 
2012˜˚˛‚ˇ
U.S. consolidated tax return FTC carry-forwards
$0.4

6.65.31.32.31.94.2”Total U.S. consolidated tax return FTC carry-forwards$22.0

ˇ
Utilization of FTCs in any year is restricted to 35% of foreign source taxable income in that year. However, overall domestic losses that Citi 

has incurred of approximately $63 billion as of December 31, 2012 are 
allowed to be reclassified as foreign source income to the extent of 50% of 
domestic source income produced in subsequent years, and such resulting 
foreign source income would cover the FTCs being carried forward. As such, 
Citi believes the foreign source taxable income limitation will not be an 
impediment to the FTC carry-forward usage as long as Citi can generate 
sufficient domestic taxable income within the 10-year carry-forward period.Citi believes that it will generate sufficient U.S. taxable income within the 10-year carry-forward period referenced above to be able to fully utilize the 
FTC carry-forward, in addition to any FTC produced in such period.First Quarter of 2013ŠTax Benefit
On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed 
into law. Among other provisions contained in the Act was a retroactive 
extension to the beginning of 2012 of the ﬁactive financing exception.ﬂ As a 
result of the enactment of this new tax law, Citigroup expects to have a tax 
benefit of approximately $45 million in the first quarter of 2013.For additional information on income taxes, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.See the discussion in Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for 
information regarding Citi™s policies on establishing accruals for legal and 
regulatory contingencies.
See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of 

ﬁAccounting Changesﬂ and the ﬁFuture Application of Accounting Standards.ﬂ133Citi™s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed under the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time 
periods specified in the SEC™s rules and forms, including without limitation 
that information required to be disclosed by Citi in its SEC filings is 
accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) as appropriate to 
allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure.Citi™s Disclosure Committee assists the CEO and CFO in their 
responsibilities to design, establish, maintain and evaluate the effectiveness 
of Citi™s disclosure controls and procedures. The Disclosure Committee 

is responsible for, among other things, the oversight, maintenance and 

implementation of the disclosure controls and procedures, subject to the 
supervision and oversight of the CEO and CFO.Citi™s management, with the participation of its CEO and CFO, has 
evaluated the effectiveness of Citigroup™s disclosure controls and procedures 

(as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of December 31, 
2012 and, based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that at 
that date Citigroup™s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
134Citi™s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate 
internal control over financial reporting. Citi™s internal control over 
financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally 
accepted accounting principles. Citi™s internal control over financial 
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of Citi™s assets; (ii) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that Citi™s receipts and expenditures are made only in 
accordance with authorizations of Citi™s management and directors; and 
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Citi™s assets that could have 
a material effect on its financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that 
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that 
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
In addition, given Citi™s large size, complex operations and global footprint, lapses or deficiencies in internal controls may occur from time to time.Citi management assessed the effectiveness of Citigroup™s internal control 
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012 based on the criteria 
set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 

Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on 
this assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2012, Citi™s 

internal control over financial reporting was effective. In addition, there were 
no changes in Citi™s internal control over financial reporting during the fiscal 

quarter ended December 31, 2012 that materially affected, or are reasonably 
likely to materially affect, Citi™s internal control over financial reporting.
The effectiveness of Citi™s internal control over financial reporting as 
of December 31, 2012 has been audited by KPMG LLP, Citi™s independent 

registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report below, which 

expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of Citi™s internal 

control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012.135Certain statements in this Form 10-K, including but not limited to statements included within the Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations, are ﬁforward-looking statementsﬂ 
within the meaning of the rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, 
Citigroup also may make forward-looking statements in its other documents 
filed or furnished with the SEC, and its management may make forward-
looking statements orally to analysts, investors, representatives of the media 
and others.Generally, forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts but 
instead represent Citigroup™s and its management™s beliefs regarding future 

events. Such statements may be identified by words such as believe, expect, anticipate, intend, estimate, may increase, may fluctuate, and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as will, should, would 
and could.Such statements are based on management™s current expectations and 
are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results 
and capital and other financial condition may differ materially from those 
included in these statements due to a variety of factors, including without 
limitation the precautionary statements included throughout this Form 10-K 
and the factors and uncertainties listed and described under ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ 
above and summarized below:the impact of the significant regulatory changes and uncertainties faced by Citi in the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates, and the 
possibility of additional regulatory requirements or changes beyond those 
already proposed, adopted or contemplated by U.S. or non-U.S. regulators;the uncertainty regarding the timing and implementation of future 
regulatory capital requirements, including the potential impact these 
requirements could have on Citi™s businesses, results of operations and 
financial condition, and Citi™s ability to meet the requirements as it 
projects or as required;the impact of derivatives regulation, including the ﬁpush-outﬂ provision, 
under the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as other international derivatives 
regulations, on Citi™s competitiveness, compliance costs and risks and 
results of operations; the potential impact of the proposed restrictions of the ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ 
provisions under the Dodd-Frank Act on Citi™s market-making activities, 
the significant compliance costs and risks associated with those proposals, 
and the potential inconsistent regulatory regimes and increased 
compliance and other costs resulting from non-U.S. proposals;the potential impact to Citi™s business structures, activities and 
practices as a result of regulatory requirements in the U.S. and in 
non-U.S. jurisdictions to facilitate the future orderly resolution of large 
financial institutions;the potential impact to Citi and its businesses of additional regulations 
with respect to securitizations;the potential impact of the ongoing Eurozone debt and economic crisis, 
directly or indirectly, on Citi™s businesses, results of operations or financial 
condition, including the exit of one or more countries from the European 
Monetary Union;the uncertainty relating to the sustainability and pace of economic 
recovery in the U.S. and globally and the impact any continued 
uncertainty could have on Citi™s businesses results of operations and 
financial condition;any significant global economic downturn or disruption, including a 
significant decline in global trade volumes, on Citi™s businesses, results 
of operations and financial condition, particularly as compared to 
Citi™s competitors;the uncertainty regarding the level of U.S. government debt and potential 
downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating on Citi™s businesses, 
results of operations, capital, funding and liquidity; risks arising from Citi™s extensive operations outside of the U.S., 
particularly in emerging markets, including among others foreign 
exchange controls, limitations on foreign investments, sociopolitical 
instability, nationalization, closure of branches or subsidiaries and 
confiscation of assets, as well as increased compliance and regulatory 
risks and costs; the potential impact on Citi™s liquidity and/or costs of funding as a result 
of external factors, such as market disruptions and changes in Citi™s 
credit spreads;the potential impact on Citi™s funding and liquidity, as well as the results 
of operations for certain of its businesses, resulting from a reduction in 
Citi™s or its more significant subsidiaries™ credit ratings;the potential impact on Citi™s businesses, business practices, reputation, 
financial condition or results of operations from the extensive legal and 
regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries to which Citi is 
subject, including among others those related to Citi™s U.S. mortgage-
related activities, interbank offered rates submissions and anti-money 
laundering programs;the impact of Citi Holdings on Citi™s results of operations, and its ability 
to utilize the capital supporting the remaining assets of Citi Holdings for 
more productive purposes;Citi™s ability to return capital to shareholders and the potential market impact if it is not able to do so, whether as a result of the CCAR process, 
required supervisory stress tests or otherwise;136Citi™s ability to achieve its announced or anticipated expense reductions, including as a result of external factors outside of its control;Citi™s ability to utilize DTAs, including its ability to generate U.S. taxable 
earnings during the relevant carry-forward periods, particularly the FTC 
carry-forward periods;the potential impact on the value of Citi™s DTAs if U.S., state or foreign 
tax rates are reduced, or if other changes are made to the U.S. tax system, 
such as changes to the tax treatment of foreign business income;Citi™s failure to maintain its contractual relationships with various 
retailers and merchants within its U.S. credit card businesses in NA RCB, such as the Citi-AAdvantage card program, and the potential impact any 
such failure could have on the results of operations or financial condition 
of those businesses;the potential impact to Citi from continually evolving cybersecurity 
and other technological risks and attacks, including additional costs, 
reputational damage, regulatory penalties and financial losses;the potential impact on Citi™s performance, including its competitive 
position and ability to execute its strategy, if Citi is unable to hire or retain 
qualified employees;the possibility of incorrect assumptions or estimates in Citi™s financial 
statements, and the potential impact of regulatory changes to financial 
accounting and reporting standards on how Citi records and reports its 
financial condition and results of operations; the potential impact of changes in the method for determining LIBOR 
on the value of any LIBOR-linked debt securities and other financial 
obligations held or issued by Citi and on Citi™s results of operations or 
financial condition; andthe effectiveness of Citi™s risk management and mitigation processes and 
strategies, including the effectiveness of its risk models.Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Citigroup speak only as to the date they are made, and Citi does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events 
that arise after the date the forward-looking statements were made.137The Board of Directors and StockholdersCitigroup Inc.:We have audited Citigroup Inc. and subsidiaries™ (the ﬁCompanyﬂ or ﬁCitigroupﬂ) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal ControlŠIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company™s management is responsible 
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its 
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, 
included in the accompanying management™s annual report on internal 
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion 
on the Company™s internal control over financial reporting based on 
our audit.We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards 
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was 
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an 
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered 
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a 

reasonable basis for our opinion.A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company™s 
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance 
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and 
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company™s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that 
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that 
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.In our opinion, Citigroup maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on 
criteria established in Internal ControlŠIntegrated Framework issued by 
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated 
balance sheets of Citigroup as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the 
related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes 
in stockholders™ equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-
year period ended December 31, 2012, and our report dated March 1, 2013 
expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.New York, New York 
March 1, 2013138The Board of Directors and Stockholders Citigroup Inc.:We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of 
Citigroup Inc. and subsidiaries (the ﬁCompanyﬂ or ﬁCitigroupﬂ) as of 
December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders™ equity and cash 
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 
2012. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the 
Company™s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards 
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. 
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes 
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement 
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for 

our opinion.In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Citigroup as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012, 
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Citigroup™s internal 

control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria 
established in Internal ControlŠIntegrated Framework issued by the 
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 

(COSO), and our report dated March 1, 2013 expressed an unqualified 
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company™s internal control over 

financial reporting.New York, New York 
March 1, 2013139Consolidated Statement of IncomeŠ For the Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010140
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive IncomeŠ For the Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010141
Consolidated Balance SheetŠDecember 31, 2012 and 2011142
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders™ EquityŠ 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010144
Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowsŠ For the Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010145
Note 1 Œ Summary of Significant Accounting Policies146Note 2 Œ Business Divestitures161Note 3 Œ Discontinued Operations161Note 4 Œ Business Segments163Note 5 Œ Interest Revenue and Expense164Note 6 Œ Commissions and Fees164Note 7 Œ Principal Transactions165Note 8 Œ Incentive Plans165Note 9 Œ Retirement Benefits171Note 10 Œ Income Taxes183Note 11 Œ Earnings per Share187Note 12 Œ Federal Funds/Securities Borrowed, Loaned and Subject to Repurchase Agreements188Note 13 Œ Brokerage Receivables and Brokerage Payables189Note 14 Œ Trading Account Assets and Liabilities189Note 15 Œ Investments190Note 16 Œ Loans201Note 17 Œ Allowance for Credit Losses212Note 18 Œ Goodwill and Intangible Assets214Note 19 Œ Debt217Note 20 Œ Regulatory Capital and Citigroup Inc. Parent Company Information219Note 21 Œ Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)222Note 22 Œ Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities223Note 23 Œ Derivatives Activities241Note 24 Œ Concentrations of Credit Risk250Note 25 Œ Fair Value Measurement250Note 26 Œ Fair Value Elections269Note 27 Œ Pledged Assets, Collateral, Commitments and Guarantees274
Note 28 Œ Contingencies280Note 29 Œ Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)288 140Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31,In millions of dollars, except per share amounts
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Revenues$68,138

20,535
Net interest revenue$47,603

$12,926

4,781

4,012

3,251
…ˆ‘ˇ˘
(5,037)

66
$(4,971)

$2,476

95
Total non-interest revenues
$22,570

Total revenues, net of interest expense
$70,173

Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims


$10,848

887

(16)
Total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$11,719

Operating expenses


$25,204

3,282
‰
5,914
2,224

13,894
Total operating expenses
 (3)$50,518

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes$7,936


27
Income from continuing operations$7,909

Discontinued operations

$(219)

(1)

(71)
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
$(149)
˛˛˜
Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$7,760

219
Citigroup™s net income 
$7,541

Basic earnings per share (4)
$2.56


(0.05)•˚‚˚˛‡
Net income $2.51

Weighted average common shares outstanding
2,930.6
Diluted earnings per share (4)
$2.49


(0.05)•˚‚˚˛‡
Net income $2.44

Adjusted weighted average common shares outstanding (4)3,015.5
•˛‡


•˜‡Other revenue





141Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries  
Years Ended December 31, In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$7,760

Citigroup™s other comprehensive income (loss)

$632


527

721

(988)
Citigroup™s total other comprehensive income (loss)
$892

Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
$32
˛

58
Total other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
$90

Total comprehensive income before attribution of noncontrolling interests
$8,742

‰
309
Citigroup™s comprehensive income 
$8,433

•˛‡’Ž
Other comprehensive income‚
142Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 31,In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛Assets
$36,453

102,134
’
261,311
22,490‰’‡
320,929’
’
312,326
’
408,671’
246,793
$655,464


(25,455)‰
$630,009

25,673
5,697
1,942’
145,660
36œTotal assets
$1,864,660

The following table presents certain assets of consolidated variable interest entities (VIEs), which are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet above. The assets in the table below include only those assets that can be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs on the following page, and are in excess of those obligations. Additionally, the assets in the table below include third-party assets of consolidated VIEs only, and exclude intercompany balances that eliminate 

in consolidation.December 31,In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛Assets of consolidated VIEs that can only be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs$498

‰
48110,751
’
93,936’
23,684
$117,620


(5,854)‰
$111,766

674Total assets of consolidated VIEs that can only be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs
$124,170


143Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 31,In millions of dollars, except shares and per share amounts
2012˜˚˛˛Liabilities
$129,657


’
247,716
65,024
’
488,163‰
$930,560


’
211,236
57,013‰
115,549’
52,027’
239,463’
67,815
ŠœTotal liabilities
$1,673,663

Stockholders™ equity

102,038 as of December 31, 2012

$2,562


3,043,153,204 as of December 31, 2012

30
106,39197,809‰
December 31, 2012Š14,269,301 shares

(847)
(16,896)Total Citigroup stockholders™ equity
$189,049

1,948Total equity
$190,997

Total liabilities and equity
$1,864,660

The following table presents certain liabilities of consolidated VIEs, which are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet above. The liabilities in the table below include third-party liabilities of consolidated VIEs only, and exclude intercompany balances that eliminate in consolidation. The liabilities also exclude 
amounts where creditors or beneficial interest holders have recourse to the general credit of Citigroup.December 31,In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛Liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which creditors or beneficial interest holders do not have  
recourse to the general credit of Citigroup$15,637

’
26,346
1,224Total liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which creditors or beneficial interest holders do not have  
recourse to the general credit of Citigroup$43,207


144 Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
AmountsSharesIn millions of dollars, except shares in thousands
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Preferred stock at aggregate liquidation value

$312

12˛˜˛˜
2,250œœ
90œœ

$2,562

102˛˜˛˜
Common stock and additional paid-in capital

$105,833

2,937,756
597
9,037
‰‰
Šœœ
96,338œ
Š
Š
…ˆ‘ˇ˘(9)˛
22

$106,421

3,043,153
Retained earnings

$90,520


(107)œ

$90,413


7,541
(120)˛˚
(26)
…ˆ‘ˇ˘1˛•˛‡

$97,809

Treasury stock, at cost


$(1,071)

(13,878)
229
(253)
‰
(5)•˛‡
(138)
…ˆ‘ˇ˘Šœ˛Šœ
$(847)

(14,269)
Citigroup™s accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)


$(17,788)


Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
892

$(16,896)

Total Citigroup common stockholders™ equity
$186,487

3,028,884
Total Citigroup stockholders™ equity
$189,049

Noncontrolling interest

$1,767


88
‰
41

219
(33)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
90
…ˆ‘ˇ˘(224)
Net change in noncontrolling interests$181

Balance, end of period
$1,948

Total equity
$190,997

•˛‡

Financial Services
œInsurance (Topic 944): Accounting for Costs Associated with 
Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts‚

Retained earnings
Consolidation







145Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operationsNet income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$7,760

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests219Citigroup™s net income 
$7,541

(Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of taxes
(148)(Loss) gain on sale, net of taxes
(1)
Income from continuing operationsŠexcluding noncontrolling interests
$7,690

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities of continuing operations

20385
2,507
(4,091)

10,832
(3,251)
4,971
(29,195)

(10,533)

14,538

12,863

945

(1,106)
(524)

(1,457)
…ˆ‘ˇ˘
9,794
Total adjustments
$6,581

Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations
$14,271

Cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations
$53,650

(28,817)

7,287
(256,907)
143,853

102,020

(3,604)

1,089
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations
$18,571

Cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations$(143)

2,250œœ
Š
‰
(5)•˛‡
(194)
27,843

(117,575)
64,624
(2,164)
Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations$(25,364)


$274

Discontinued operationsNet cash provided by discontinued operations
$Š

Change in cash and due from banks$7,752

Cash and due from banks at beginning of year28,701
Cash and due from banks at end of year$36,453

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for continuing operations

$3,900


$19,739

Non-cash investing activities‰
$500

‰
Šœ
‰
Š
œ
146The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Citigroup and its subsidiaries prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (GAAP). The Company consolidates subsidiaries in 
which it holds, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting rights 
or where it exercises control. Entities where the Company holds 20% to 
50% of the voting rights and/or has the ability to exercise significant 
influence, other than investments of designated venture capital subsidiaries 
or investments accounted for at fair value under the fair value option, are 
accounted for under the equity method, and the pro rata share of their 
income (loss) is included in Other revenue. Income from investments in less 
than 20%-owned companies is recognized when dividends are received. As 
discussed in more detail in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
Citigroup consolidates entities deemed to be variable interest entities when 
Citigroup is determined to be the primary beneficiary. Gains and losses on 
the disposition of branches, subsidiaries, affiliates, buildings, and other 
investments are included in Other revenue.Throughout these Notes, ﬁCitigroup,ﬂ ﬁCitiﬂ and the ﬁCompanyﬂ refer to Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior periods™ financial 
statements and notes to conform to the current period™s presentation.
Citibank, N.A. is a commercial bank and wholly owned subsidiary of 
Citigroup Inc. Citibank™s principal offerings include: Consumer finance, 
mortgage lending, and retail banking products and services; investment 
banking, commercial banking, cash management, trade finance 
and e-commerce products and services; and private banking products 
and services.An entity is referred to as a variable interest entity (VIE) if it meets the criteria 
outlined in ASC 810, Consolidation (formerly SFAS No. 167, Amendments 
to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)) (SFAS 167), which are: (i) the entity 
has equity that is insufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities 
without additional subordinated financial support from other parties; or (ii) 
the entity has equity investors that cannot make significant decisions about 
the entity™s operations or that do not absorb their proportionate share of the 
entity™s expected losses or expected returns.The Company consolidates a VIE when it has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE™s economic success and a 

right to receive benefits or absorb losses of the entity that could be potentially 
significant to the VIE (that is, it is the primary beneficiary).Along with the VIEs that are consolidated in accordance with these guidelines, the Company has variable interests in other VIEs that are 
not consolidated because the Company is not the primary beneficiary. 

These include multi-seller finance companies, certain collateralized debt 
obligations (CDOs), many structured finance transactions, and various 
investment funds.However, these VIEs and all other unconsolidated VIEs are monitored by 
the Company to determine if any events have occurred that could cause its 
primary beneficiary status to change. These events include:additional purchases or sales of variable interests by Citigroup or an unrelated third party, which cause Citigroup™s overall variable interest 
ownership to change; changes in contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocates 
expected losses and residual returns among the variable interest holders; changes in the party that has power to direct the activities of a VIE that 
most significantly impact the entity™s economic performance; and providing support to an entity that results in an implicit variable interest.All other entities not deemed to be VIEs with which the Company has involvement are evaluated for consolidation under other subtopics of ASC 810 (formerly Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, SFAS No. 94, 
Consolidation of All Majority-
Owned Subsidiaries, and EITF Issue No. 04-5, Determining Whether 
a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a 

Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have 
Certain Rights).Assets and liabilities of Citi™s foreign operations are translated from their 
respective functional currencies into U.S. dollars using period-end spot 
foreign-exchange rates. The effects of those translation adjustments are 
reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component 
of stockholders™ equity, along with related hedge and tax effects, until 
realized upon sale or substantial liquidation of the foreign operation. 
Revenues and expenses of Citi™s foreign operations are translated monthly 
from their respective functional currencies into U.S. dollars at amounts that 
approximate weighted average exchange rates.For transactions whose terms are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency, including transactions denominated in the local 

currencies of foreign operations with the U.S. dollar as their functional 
currency, the effects of changes in exchange rates are primarily included in 

Principal transactions, along with the related hedge effects. Instruments 
used to hedge foreign currency exposures include foreign currency forward, 
option and swap contracts and designated issues of non-U.S. dollar debt. 
Foreign operations in countries with highly inflationary economies designate 
the U.S. dollar as their functional currency, with the effects of changes in 

exchange rates primarily included in Other revenue.147Investments include fixed income and equity securities. Fixed income instruments include bonds, notes and redeemable preferred stocks, as well as 
certain loan-backed and structured securities that are subject to prepayment 
risk. Equity securities include common and nonredeemable preferred stock.Investment securities are classified and accounted for as follows:Fixed income securities classified as ﬁheld-to-maturityﬂ represent 
securities that the Company has both the ability and the intent to hold 
until maturity and are carried at amortized cost. Interest income on such 
securities is included in Interest revenue.Fixed income securities and marketable equity securities classified 
as ﬁavailable-for-saleﬂ are carried at fair value with changes in fair 
value reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), 
a component of Stockholders™ equity, net of applicable income taxes 
and hedges. As described in more detail in Note 15 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, declines in fair value that are determined to be 
other-than-temporary are recorded in earnings immediately. Realized 
gains and losses on sales are included in income primarily on a specific 
identification cost basis. Interest and dividend income on such securities 
is included in Interest revenue.Venture capital investments held by Citigroup™s private equity subsidiaries 
that are considered investment companies are carried at fair value with 
changes in fair value reported in Other revenue. These subsidiaries 
include entities registered as Small Business Investment Companies and 
engage exclusively in venture capital activities.Certain investments in non-marketable equity securities and certain 
investments that would otherwise have been accounted for using the 
equity method are carried at fair value, since the Company has elected to 
apply fair value accounting. Changes in fair value of such investments are 
recorded in earnings.Certain non-marketable equity securities are carried at cost and 
periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment, as described 
in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.For investments in fixed income securities classified as held-to-maturity or available-for-sale, accrual of interest income is suspended for investments 
that are in default or on which it is likely that future interest payments will 
not be made as scheduled.The Company uses a number of valuation techniques for investments carried at fair value, which are described in Note 25 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are 
included in earnings.Trading account assets include debt and marketable equity securities, 
derivatives in a receivable position, residual interests in securitizations and 
physical commodities inventory. In addition, as described in Note 26 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain assets that Citigroup has 
elected to carry at fair value under the fair value option, such as loans and 
purchased guarantees, are also included in Trading account assets.Trading account liabilities
 include securities sold, not yet purchased (short positions), and derivatives in a net payable position, as well as certain 
liabilities that Citigroup has elected to carry at fair value (as described in 
Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).Other than physical commodities inventory, all trading account assets 
and liabilities are carried at fair value. Revenues generated from trading 
assets and trading liabilities are generally reported in Principal transactions and include realized gains and losses as well as unrealized gains and losses 
resulting from changes in the fair value of such instruments. Interest income 
on trading assets is recorded in Interest revenue reduced by interest expense 
on trading liabilities.Physical commodities inventory is carried at the lower of cost or market with related losses reported in Principal transactions. Realized gains 
and losses on sales of commodities inventory are included in Principal transactions. Investments in unallocated precious metals accounts (gold, 
silver, platinum and palladium) are accounted for as hybrid instruments 

containing a debt host contract and an embedded non-financial derivative 
instrument indexed to the price of the relevant precious metal. The embedded 
derivative instrument is separated from the debt host contract and accounted 
for at fair value. The debt host contract is accounted for at fair value 
under the fair value option, as described in Note 26 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Derivatives used for trading purposes include interest rate, currency, equity, credit, and commodity swap agreements, options, caps and floors, 

warrants, and financial and commodity futures and forward contracts. 
Derivative asset and liability positions are presented net by counterparty on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet when a valid master netting agreement exists 
and the other conditions set out in ASC 210-20, Balance SheetŠOffsetting are met.The Company uses a number of techniques to determine the fair value of trading assets and liabilities, which are described in Note 25 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.148Securities borrowing and lending transactions generally do not constitute a sale of the underlying securities for accounting purposes, and are treated as 
collateralized financing transactions. Such transactions are recorded at the 
amount of proceeds advanced or received plus accrued interest. As described 
in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has 
elected to apply fair value accounting to a number of securities borrowing 
and lending transactions. Fees paid or received for all securities lending and 
borrowing transactions are recorded in Interest expense or Interest revenue 
at the contractually specified rate.The Company monitors the fair value of securities borrowed or loaned on a daily basis and obtains or posts additional collateral in order to maintain 
contractual margin protection.As described in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company uses a discounted cash flow technique to determine the fair value 
of securities lending and borrowing transactions.Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (repos) and securities 
purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repos) generally do not 
constitute a sale for accounting purposes of the underlying securities and 
are treated as collateralized financing transactions. As described in Note 26 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has elected to apply 
fair value accounting to a majority of such transactions, with changes in fair 
value reported in earnings. Any transactions for which fair value accounting 
has not been elected are recorded at the amount of cash advanced or received 
plus accrued interest. Irrespective of whether the Company has elected fair 
value accounting, interest paid or received on all repo and reverse repo 
transactions is recorded in Interest expense or Interest revenue at the 
contractually specified rate.Where the conditions of ASC 210-20-45-11, Balance SheetŠOffsetting: Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements, are met, repos and 
reverse repos are presented net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.The Company™s policy is to take possession of securities purchased under 
reverse repurchase agreements. The Company monitors the fair value of 
securities subject to repurchase or resale on a daily basis and obtains or posts 
additional collateral in order to maintain contractual margin protection.As described in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company uses a discounted cash flow technique to determine the fair value 
of repo and reverse repo transactions.

Where certain conditions are met under ASC 860-10, Transfers and Servicing (formerly FASB Statement No. 166, Accounting for Transfers 
of Financial Assets), the Company accounted for certain repurchase 
agreements and securities lending agreements as sales. The key distinction 
resulting in these agreements being accounted for as sales was a reduction in 
initial margin or restriction in daily maintenance margin. At December 31, 2011, a nominal amount of these transactions were accounted for as 
sales that reduced Trading account assets. See related discussion of the assessment of the effective control for repurchase agreements in ﬁAccounting 
Changesﬂ below.Loans are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of any 
unearned income and unamortized deferred fees and costs except that 
credit card receivable balances also include accrued interest and fees. Loan 
origination fees and certain direct origination costs are generally deferred 
and recognized as adjustments to income over the lives of the related loans.As described in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Citi has elected fair value accounting for certain loans. Such loans are carried at fair 
value with changes in fair value reported in earnings. Interest income on 
such loans is recorded in Interest revenue at the contractually specified rate.Loans for which the fair value option has not been elected are classified upon origination or acquisition as either held-for-investment or held-for-sale. 

This classification is based on management™s initial intent and ability with 

regard to those loans.Loans that are held-for-investment are classified as 
Loans, net of unearned income on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the related cash 
flows are included within the cash flows from the investing activities category 
in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on the line Change in loans. However, when the initial intent for holding a loan has changed from held-

for-investment to held-for-sale, the loan is reclassified to held-for-sale, but 

the related cash flows continue to be reported in cash flows from investing 
activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on the line Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans.149Consumer loansConsumer loans represent loans and leases managed primarily by the Global Consumer Banking and Local Consumer Lending businesses.Non-accrual and re-aging policiesAs a general rule, interest accrual ceases for installment and real estate (both 
open- and closed-end) loans when payments are 90 days contractually past 
due. For credit cards and unsecured revolving loans, however, Citi generally 
accrues interest until payments are 180 days past due. As a result of OCC 
guidance issued in the first quarter of 2012, home equity loans in regulated 
bank entities are classified as non-accrual if the related residential first 
mortgage is 90 days or more past due. As a result of OCC guidance issued 
in the third quarter of 2012, mortgage loans in regulated bank entities 
discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other than FHA-insured loans, 
are classified as non-accrual. Commercial market loans are placed on a cash 
(non-accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual experience and 
a forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that the 
payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal is 90 
days past due.Loans that have been modified to grant a short-term or long-term concession to a borrower who is in financial difficulty may not be accruing 
interest at the time of the modification. The policy for returning such 
modified loans to accrual status varies by product and/or region. In most 
cases, a minimum number of payments (ranging from one to six) are 
required, while in other cases the loan is never returned to accrual status. For 
regulated bank entities, such modified loans are returned to accrual status if 
a credit evaluation at the time of or subsequent to the modification indicates 
the borrower™s ability to meet the restructured terms, and the borrower is 

current and has demonstrated a reasonable period of sustained payment 
performance (minimum six months of consecutive payments).For U.S. Consumer loans, generally one of the conditions to qualify for modification is that a minimum number of payments (typically ranging 
from one to three) must be made. Upon modification, the loan is re-aged to 
current status. However, re-aging practices for certain open-ended Consumer 

loans, such as credit cards, are governed by Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines. For open-ended Consumer loans 
subject to FFIEC guidelines, one of the conditions for the loan to be re-aged 
to current status is that at least three consecutive minimum monthly 
payments, or the equivalent amount, must be received. In addition, under 
FFIEC guidelines, the number of times that such a loan can be re-aged is 
subject to limitations (generally once in 12 months and twice in five years). 
Furthermore, Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and Department of 
Veterans Affairs (VA) loans are modified under those respective agencies™ 

guidelines and payments are not always required in order to re-age a 
modified loan to current.Charge-off policies
Citi™s charge-off policies follow the general guidelines below:Unsecured installment loans are charged off at 120 days past due.Unsecured revolving loans and credit card loans are charged off at 180 days contractually past due.Loans secured with non-real estate collateral are written down to the 
estimated value of the collateral, less costs to sell, at 120 days past due.Real estate-secured loans are written down to the estimated value of the 
property, less costs to sell, at 180 days contractually past due.Non-bank loans secured by real estate are written down to the estimated 
value of the property, less costs to sell, at the earlier of the receipt of title or 
12 months in foreclosure (a process that must commence when payments 
are 120 days contractually past due).Non-bank unsecured personal loans are charged off when the loan is 
180 days contractually past due if there have been no payments within the last six months, but in no event can these loans exceed 360 days 
contractually past due.Unsecured loans in bankruptcy are charged off within 60 days of 
notification of filing by the bankruptcy court or in accordance with Citi™s 
charge-off policy, whichever occurs earlier.As a result of OCC guidance issued in the third quarter of 2012, real estate-
secured loans that were discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other 
than FHA-insured loans, are written down to the collateral value of the 
property, less costs to sell. Other real estate-secured loans in bankruptcy 
are written down to the estimated value of the property, less costs to sell, at 
the later of 60 days after notification or 60 days contractually past due.Non-bank unsecured personal loans in bankruptcy are charged off when 
they are 30 days contractually past due.Commercial market loans are written down to the extent that principal is 
judged to be uncollectable.Corporate loans
Corporate loans represent loans and leases managed by ICG or the Special Asset Pool. Corporate loans are identified as impaired and placed on a cash 
(non-accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual experience and 
a forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that 
the payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal 
is 90 days past due, except when the loan is well collateralized and in the process of collection. Any interest accrued on impaired Corporate loans 
and leases is reversed at 90 days and charged against current earnings, 
and interest is thereafter included in earnings only to the extent actually 
received in cash. When there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability 
of principal, all cash receipts are thereafter applied to reduce the recorded 
investment in the loan.150Impaired Corporate loans and leases are written down to the extent that principal is deemed to be uncollectable. Impaired collateral-dependent loans and leases, where repayment is expected to be provided solely by 
the sale of the underlying collateral and there are no other available and 
reliable sources of repayment, are written down to the lower of cost or 
collateral value. Cash-basis loans are returned to an accrual status when 
all contractual principal and interest amounts are reasonably assured of 
repayment and there is a sustained period of repayment performance in 
accordance with the contractual terms.Corporate and Consumer loans that have been identified for sale are 
classified as loans held-for-sale and included in Other assets. The practice 
of Citi™s U.S. prime mortgage business has been to sell substantially all of 
its conforming loans. As such, U.S. prime mortgage conforming loans are 
classified as held-for-sale and the fair value option is elected at origination, 
with changes in fair value recorded in Other revenue. With the exception 
of these loans for which the fair value option has been elected, held-for-
sale loans are accounted for at the lower of cost or market value, with any 
write-downs or subsequent recoveries charged to Other revenue. The related 
cash flows are classified in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in the 
cash flows from operating activities category on the line Change in loans held-for-sale.Allowance for loan losses represents management™s best estimate of probable 
losses inherent in the portfolio, including probable losses related to large 
individually evaluated impaired loans and troubled debt restructurings. 
Attribution of the allowance is made for analytical purposes only, and 
the entire allowance is available to absorb probable loan losses inherent 
in the overall portfolio. Additions to the allowance are made through the 
Provision for loan losses. Loan losses are deducted from the allowance and 
subsequent recoveries are added. Assets received in exchange for loan claims 
in a restructuring are initially recorded at fair value, with any gain or loss 
reflected as a recovery or charge-off to the allowance.Corporate loansIn the Corporate portfolios, the Allowance for loan losses includes an asset-
specific component and a statistically based component. The asset-specific 
component is calculated under ASC 310-10-35, ReceivablesŠSubsequent 
Measurement (formerly SFAS 114) on an individual basis for larger-
balance, non-homogeneous loans, which are considered impaired. An asset-
specific allowance is established when the discounted cash flows, collateral 
value (less disposal costs), or observable market price of the impaired loan is 
lower than its carrying value. This allowance considers the borrower™s overall 
financial condition, resources, and payment record, the prospects for support 
from any financially responsible guarantors (discussed further below) and, if appropriate, the realizable value of any collateral. The asset-specific 
component of the allowance for smaller balance impaired loans is calculated 
on a pool basis considering historical loss experience.The allowance for the remainder of the loan portfolio is determined under ASC 450, Contingencies (formerly SFAS 5) using a statistical methodology, 

supplemented by management judgment. The statistical analysis considers 
the portfolio™s size, remaining tenor, and credit quality as measured by 

internal risk ratings assigned to individual credit facilities, which reflect 
probability of default and loss given default. The statistical analysis considers 
historical default rates and historical loss severity in the event of default, 
including historical average levels and historical variability. The result is an 

estimated range for inherent losses. The best estimate within the range is 
then determined by management™s quantitative and qualitative assessment 

of current conditions, including general economic conditions, specific 
industry and geographic trends, and internal factors including portfolio 
concentrations, trends in internal credit quality indicators, and current and 
past underwriting standards.For both the asset-specific and the statistically based components of the Allowance for loan losses, management may incorporate guarantor support. 
The financial wherewithal of the guarantor is evaluated, as applicable, 
based on net worth, cash flow statements and personal or company financial 
statements which are updated and reviewed at least annually. Citi seeks 

performance on guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business. 
Seeking performance entails obtaining satisfactory cooperation from the 
guarantor or borrower in the specific situation. This regular cooperation 
is indicative of pursuit and successful enforcement of the guarantee; the 
exposure is reduced without the expense and burden of pursuing a legal 
remedy. A guarantor™s reputation and willingness to work with Citigroup 

is evaluated based on the historical experience with the guarantor and 
the knowledge of the marketplace. In the rare event that the guarantor 
is unwilling or unable to perform or facilitate borrower cooperation, Citi 
pursues a legal remedy; however, enforcing a guarantee via legal action 

against the guarantor is not the primary means of resolving a troubled 
loan situation and rarely occurs. If Citi does not pursue a legal remedy, 

it is because Citi does not believe that the guarantor has the financial 
wherewithal to perform regardless of legal action or because there are 
legal limitations on simultaneously pursuing guarantors and foreclosure. 
A guarantor™s reputation does not impact Citi™s decision or ability to seek 

performance under the guarantee.In cases where a guarantee is a factor in the assessment of loan losses, it is included via adjustment to the loan™s internal risk rating, which in turn 

is the basis for the adjustment to the statistically based component of the 
Allowance for loan losses. To date, it is only in rare circumstances that an 

impaired commercial loan or commercial real estate loan is carried at a 
value in excess of the appraised value due to a guarantee.151When Citi™s monitoring of the loan indicates that the guarantor™s 
wherewithal to pay is uncertain or has deteriorated, there is either no change in the risk rating, because the guarantor™s credit support was never 

initially factored in, or the risk rating is adjusted to reflect that uncertainty 
or deterioration. Accordingly, a guarantor™s ultimate failure to perform or 

a lack of legal enforcement of the guarantee does not materially impact 
the allowance for loan losses, as there is typically no further significant 
adjustment of the loan™s risk rating at that time. Where Citi is not seeking 

performance under the guarantee contract, it provides for loans losses as if 
the loans were non-performing and not guaranteed.Consumer loansFor Consumer loans, each portfolio of non-modified smaller-balance, 
homogeneous loans is independently evaluated by product type (e.g., 
residential mortgage, credit card, etc.) for impairment in accordance 
with ASC 450-20. The allowance for loan losses attributed to these loans 
is established via a process that estimates the probable losses inherent in 
the specific portfolio. This process includes migration analysis, in which 
historical delinquency and credit loss experience is applied to the current 
aging of the portfolio, together with analyses that reflect current and 
anticipated economic conditions, including changes in housing prices and 
unemployment trends. Citi™s allowance for loan losses under ASC 450-20 

only considers contractual principal amounts due, except for credit card 
loans where estimated loss amounts related to accrued interest receivable are 
also included.Management also considers overall portfolio indicators, including historical credit losses, delinquent, non-performing, and classified loans, 
trends in volumes and terms of loans, an evaluation of overall credit quality, the credit process, including lending policies and procedures, and economic, 
geographical, product and other environmental factors.Separate valuation allowances are determined for impaired smaller-
balance homogeneous loans whose terms have been modified in a troubled 
debt restructuring (TDR). Long-term modification programs as well as short-
term (less than 12 months) modifications originated beginning January 1, 
2011 that provide concessions (such as interest rate reductions) to borrowers 
in financial difficulty are reported as TDRs. In addition, loans included in 
the U.S. Treasury™s Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) trial 

period at December 31, 2011 are reported as TDRs. The allowance for loan 
losses for TDRs is determined in accordance with ASC 310-10-35 considering 
all available evidence, including, as appropriate, the present value of the 
expected future cash flows discounted at the loan™s original contractual 

effective rate, the secondary market value of the loan and the fair value 
of collateral less disposal costs. These expected cash flows incorporate 
modification program default rate assumptions. The original contractual 
effective rate for credit card loans is the pre-modification rate, which may 
include interest rate increases under the original contractual agreement with 
the borrower.
Where short-term concessions have been granted prior to January 1, 2011, the allowance for loan losses is materially consistent with the requirements 
of ASC 310-10-35.Valuation allowances for commercial market loans, which are classifiably managed Consumer loans, are determined in the same manner as for 
Corporate loans and are described in more detail in the following section. 
Generally, an asset-specific component is calculated under ASC 310-10-35 

on an individual basis for larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans that are 

considered impaired and the allowance for the remainder of the classifiably 
managed Consumer loan portfolio is calculated under ASC 450 using a 
statistical methodology, supplemented by management adjustment.
Management provides reserves for an estimate of probable losses inherent 
in the funded loan portfolio on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the 
form of an allowance for loan losses. These reserves are established in 
accordance with Citigroup™s credit reserve policies, as approved by the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Citi™s Chief Risk Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer review the adequacy of the credit loss reserves each 
quarter with representatives from the risk management and finance staffs 
for each applicable business area. Applicable business areas include those 
having classifiably managed portfolios, where internal credit-risk ratings 
are assigned (primarily Institutional Clients Group and Global Consumer 
Banking) or modified Consumer loans, where concessions were granted due 
to the borrowers™ financial difficulties.The above-mentioned representatives for these business areas present recommended reserve balances for their funded and unfunded lending 
portfolios along with supporting quantitative and qualitative data. The 
quantitative data include:Estimated probable losses for non-performing, non-homogeneous exposures within a business line™s classifiably managed portfolio and 
impaired smaller-balance homogeneous loans whose terms have 
been modified due to the borrowers™ financial difficulties, and it was 
determined that a concession was granted to the borrower. Consideration may be given to the following, as appropriate, when determining this 
estimate: (i) the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the 
loan™s original effective rate; (ii) the borrower™s overall financial condition, 
resources and payment record; and (iii) the prospects for support from 
financially responsible guarantors or the realizable value of any collateral. 
In the determination of the allowance for loan losses for TDRs, management 
considers a combination of historical re-default rates, the current economic 
environment and the nature of the modification program when forecasting 
expected cash flows. When impairment is measured based on the present 
value of expected future cash flows, the entire change in present value is 
recorded in the Provision for loan losses.152Statistically calculated losses inherent in the classifiably managed portfolio for performing and de minimis non-performing exposures. The calculation is based upon: (i) Citigroup™s internal system of credit-risk 
ratings, which are analogous to the risk ratings of the major rating agencies; 
and (ii) historical default and loss data, including rating agency information 
regarding default rates from 1983 to 2010 and internal data dating to the 
early 1970s on severity of losses in the event of default. Adjustments may 
be made to this data. Such adjustments include: (i) statistically calculated 
estimates to cover the historical fluctuation of the default rates over the credit 
cycle, the historical variability of loss severity among defaulted loans, and the 
degree to which there are large obligor concentrations in the global portfolio; 
and (ii) adjustments made for specific known items, such as current 
environmental factors and credit trends.In addition, representatives from each of the risk management and finance staffs that cover business areas with delinquency-managed portfolios 
containing smaller-balance homogeneous loans present their recommended 

reserve balances based upon leading credit indicators, including loan 
delinquencies and changes in portfolio size as well as economic trends, 
including current and future housing prices, unemployment, length of time 
in foreclosure, costs to sell and GDP. This methodology is applied separately 

for each individual product within each geographic region in which these 
portfolios exist.This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. The frequency of default, risk ratings, loss recovery rates, the size and 
diversity of individual large credits, and the ability of borrowers with foreign 
currency obligations to obtain the foreign currency necessary for orderly debt 
servicing, among other things, are all taken into account during this review. 

Changes in these estimates could have a direct impact on the credit costs in 
any period and could result in a change in the allowance.A similar approach to the allowance for loan losses is used for calculating 
a reserve for the expected losses related to unfunded loan commitments 
and standby letters of credit. This reserve is classified on the balance 
sheet in Other liabilities. Changes to the allowance for unfunded 
lending commitments are recorded in the Provision for unfunded 
lending commitments.Mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) are recognized as intangible assets 
when purchased or when the Company sells or securitizes loans acquired 
through purchase or origination and retains the right to service the loans. 
Mortgage servicing rights are accounted for at fair value, with changes in 
value recorded in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement 
of Income.Additional information on the Company™s MSRs can be found in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Overview
In connection with Citi™s sales of residential mortgage loans to the U.S. 
government-sponsored entities (GSEs) and, in most cases, other mortgage 
loan sales and private-label securitizations, Citi makes representations 
and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements. The specific 
representations and warranties made by Citi in any particular transaction 
depend on, among other things, the nature of the transaction and the 
requirements of the investor (e.g., whole loan sale to the GSEs versus loans 
sold through securitization transactions), as well as the credit quality of the 
loan (e.g., prime, Alt-A or subprime).These sales expose Citi to potential claims for breaches of its representations and warranties. In the event of a breach of its representations 
and warranties, Citi could be required either to repurchase the mortgage 
loans with the identified defects (generally at unpaid principal balance plus 
accrued interest) or to indemnify (make-whole) the investors for their losses 
on these loans. To the extent Citi made representation and warranties on 

loans it purchased from third-party sellers that remain financially viable, 
Citi may have the right to seek recovery of repurchase losses or make-whole 
payments from the third party based on representations and warranties made 
by the third party to Citi (a back-to-back claim).Whole Loan Sales Citi is exposed to representation and warranty repurchase claims primarily 
as a result of its whole loan sales to the GSEs and, to a lesser extent, private 
investors, through its Consumer business in CitiMortgage. When selling a 
loan to these investors, Citi makes various representations and warranties to, 
among other things, the following:Citi™s ownership of the loan;the validity of the lien securing the loan;the absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing the loan;the effectiveness of title insurance on the property securing the loan;the process used in selecting the loans for inclusion in a transaction;the loan™s compliance with any applicable loan criteria established by the 
buyer; andthe loan™s compliance with applicable local, state and federal laws.In the case of a repurchase, Citi will bear any subsequent credit loss on the 
mortgage loan and the loan is typically considered a credit-impaired loan 
and accounted for under SOP 03-3, ﬁAccounting for Certain Loans and 
Debt Securities Acquired in a Transferﬂ (now incorporated into ASC 310-30, 
ReceivablesŠLoans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated 
Credit Quality) (SOP 03-3). These repurchases have not had a material impact on Citi™s non-performing loan statistics because credit-impaired 
purchased SOP 03-3 loans are not included in non-accrual loans, since they 
generally continue to accrue interest until write-off. Citi™s repurchases have 
primarily been due to GSE repurchase claims.153Private-Label Residential Mortgage SecuritizationsCiti is also exposed to representation and warranty repurchase claims as a 
result of mortgage loans sold through private-label residential mortgage 
securitizations. These representations were generally made or assigned to the 
issuing trust and related to, among other things, the following:the absence of fraud on the part of the borrower, the seller or any appraiser, broker or other party involved in the origination of the loan 
(which was sometimes wholly or partially limited to the knowledge of the 
representation provider);whether the property securing the loan was occupied by the borrower as 
his or her principal residence;the loan™s compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws;whether the loan was originated in conformity with the originator™s 
underwriting guidelines; anddetailed data concerning the loans that were included on the mortgage 
loan schedule.Repurchase Reserve
Citi has recorded a mortgage repurchase reserve (referred to as the 
repurchase reserve) for its potential repurchase or make-whole liability 
regarding representation and warranty claims that is included in Other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Citi™s repurchase reserve 
primarily relates to whole loan sales to the GSEs and is thus calculated 
primarily based on Citi™s historical repurchase activity with the GSEs.Repurchase ReserveŠWhole Loan SalesThe repurchase reserve is based on various assumptions which, as referenced 
above, are primarily based on Citi™s historical repurchase activity with the 
GSEs. As of December 31, 2012, the most significant assumptions used 
to calculate the reserve levels are: (i) the probability of a claim based on 
correlation between loan characteristics and repurchase claims; (ii) claims 
appeal success rates; and (iii) estimated loss per repurchase or make-whole 
payment. In addition, Citi considers reimbursements estimated to be received 
from third-party sellers, which are generally based on Citi™s analysis of its 
most recent collection trends and the financial solvency or viability of the 
third-party sellers, in estimating its repurchase reserve.As referenced above, the repurchase reserve estimation process for potential whole loan representation and warranty claims relies on various 
assumptions that involve numerous estimates and judgments, including 
with respect to certain future events, and thus entails inherent uncertainty. 

Therefore, Citi estimates and discloses the range of reasonably possible loss 
for whole loan sale representation and warranty claims in excess of amounts 
accrued. This estimate is derived by modifying the key assumptions discussed 
above to reflect management™s judgment regarding reasonably possible 
adverse changes to those assumptions. Citi™s estimate of reasonably possible 

loss is based on currently available information, significant judgment and 
numerous assumptions that are subject to change.In the case of a repurchase of a credit-impaired SOP 03-3 loan, the difference between the loan™s fair value and unpaid principal balance at the 

time of the repurchase is recorded as a utilization of the repurchase reserve. 
Make-whole payments to the investor are also treated as utilizations and 
charged directly against the reserve. The repurchase reserve is estimated 
when Citi sells loans (recorded as an adjustment to the gain on sale, which is 
included in Other revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income) and is 
updated quarterly. Any change in estimate is recorded in 
Other revenue.Repurchase ReserveŠPrivate-Label Securitizations 
Investors in private-label securitizations may seek recovery for alleged 
breaches of representations and warranties, as well as losses caused by 
non-performing loans more generally, through repurchase claims or 
through litigation premised on a variety of legal theories. Citi considers 
litigation relating to private-label securitizations as part of its contingencies 
analysis. For additional information, see Note 28 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Citi cannot reasonably estimate probable losses from future repurchase claims for private-label securitizations because the claims to date have been 
received at an unpredictable rate, the factual basis for those claims is unclear, and very few such claims have been resolved. Rather, at the present time, Citi 

records reserves related to private-label securitizations repurchase claims 
based on estimated losses arising from those claims received that appear to be 

based on a review of the underlying loan files. These reserves are recorded in 
Principal transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income.Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value 
of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is subject to 
annual impairment testing and between annual tests if an event occurs 
or circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not reduce the fair 
value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The Company has an 
option to assess qualitative factors to determine if it is necessary to perform 
the goodwill impairment test. If, after assessing the totality of events or 
circumstances, the Company determines that it is not more-likely-than-not 
that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, no 
further testing is necessary. If, however, the Company determines that it is 
more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its 
carrying amount, then the Company is required to perform the first step 
of the two-step goodwill impairment test. Furthermore, on any business 
dispositions, goodwill is allocated to the business disposed of based on the 
ratio of the fair value of the business disposed of to the fair value of the 
reporting unit.Additional information on Citi™s goodwill impairment testing can be 
found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.154Intangible assetsŠincluding core deposit intangibles, present value of future profits, purchased credit card relationships, other customer 
relationships, and other intangible assets, but excluding MSRsŠare 
amortized over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets deemed to 
have indefinite useful lives, primarily certain asset management contracts 
and trade names, are not amortized and are subject to annual impairment 
tests. An impairment exists if the carrying value of the indefinite-lived 
intangible asset exceeds its fair value. For other intangible assets subject to 
amortization, an impairment is recognized if the carrying amount is not 
recoverable and exceeds the fair value of the intangible asset.Other assets include, among other items, loans held-for-sale, deferred tax 
assets, equity method investments, interest and fees receivable, premises 
and equipment, repossessed assets, and other receivables. Other liabilities include, among other items, accrued expenses and other payables, deferred 
tax liabilities, and reserves for legal claims, taxes, unfunded lending 
commitments, repositioning reserves, and other matters.Real estate or other assets received through foreclosure or repossession are 
generally reported in Other assets, net of a valuation allowance for selling 
costs and subsequent declines in fair value.The Company primarily securitizes credit card receivables and mortgages. 
Other types of securitized assets include corporate debt instruments (in cash 
and synthetic form) and student loans.There are two key accounting determinations that must be made relating to securitizations. Citi first makes a determination as to whether the 
securitization entity would be consolidated. Second, it determines whether 
the transfer of financial assets to the entity is considered a sale under GAAP. If 

the securitization entity is a VIE, the Company consolidates the VIE if it is the 
primary beneficiary (as discussed in ﬁVariable Interest Entitiesﬂ above). For 

all other securitization entities determined not to be VIEs in which Citigroup 
participates, a consolidation decision is based on who has voting control of 
the entity, giving consideration to removal and liquidation rights in certain 

partnership structures. Only securitization entities controlled by Citigroup 
are consolidated.Interests in the securitized and sold assets may be retained in the form of subordinated or senior interest-only strips, subordinated tranches, spread 
accounts and servicing rights. In credit card securitizations, the Company 
retains a seller™s interest in the credit card receivables transferred to the trusts, which is not in securitized form. In the case of consolidated securitization 
entities, including the credit card trusts, these retained interests are not 
reported on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet; rather, the securitized loans 

remain on the balance sheet. Substantially all of the Consumer loans sold 
or securitized through non-consolidated trusts by Citigroup are U.S. prime 
residential mortgage loans. Retained interests in non-consolidated mortgage 
securitization trusts are classified as Trading account assets
, except for 
MSRs, which are included in Mortgage servicing rights on Citigroup™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheet.Short-term borrowings and long-term debt are accounted for at amortized 
cost, except where the Company has elected to report the debt instruments, 
including certain structured notes, at fair value or the debt is in a fair value 
hedging relationship.For a transfer of financial assets to be considered a sale: (i) the assets 
must have been isolated from the Company, even in bankruptcy or other 
receivership; (ii) the purchaser must have the right to pledge or sell the 
assets transferred or, if the purchaser is an entity whose sole purpose is to 
engage in securitization and asset-backed financing activities and that entity 
is constrained from pledging the assets it receives, each beneficial interest 
holder must have the right to sell the beneficial interests; and (iii) the 
Company may not have an option or obligation to reacquire the assets.If these sale requirements are met, the assets are removed from the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. If the conditions for sale are not 

met, the transfer is considered to be a secured borrowing, the assets remain 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the sale proceeds are recognized as 
the Company™s liability. A legal opinion on a sale is generally obtained for 

complex transactions or where the Company has continuing involvement 
with assets transferred or with the securitization entity. For a transfer to be 

eligible for sale accounting, those opinions must state that the asset transfer 
is considered a sale and that the assets transferred would not be consolidated 
with the Company™s other assets in the event of the Company™s insolvency.
For a transfer of a portion of a financial asset to be considered a sale, the portion transferred must meet the definition of a participating interest. 
A participating interest must represent a pro rata ownership in an entire 
financial asset; all cash flows must be divided proportionally, with the same 

priority of payment; no participating interest in the transferred asset may 
be subordinated to the interest of another participating interest holder; and 
no party may have the right to pledge or exchange the entire financial asset 
unless all participating interest holders agree. Otherwise, the transfer is 
accounted for as a secured borrowing.See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
The Company manages its exposures to market rate movements outside its 
trading activities by modifying the asset and liability mix, either directly 
or through the use of derivative financial products, including interest-rate 
swaps, futures, forwards, and purchased options, as well as foreign-exchange 
contracts. These end-user derivatives are carried at fair value in Other assets, Other liabilities, Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities.155To qualify as an accounting hedge under the hedge accounting rules 
(versus an economic hedge where hedge accounting is not sought), a derivative must be highly effective in offsetting the risk designated as being 
hedged. The hedge relationship must be formally documented at inception, 
detailing the particular risk management objective and strategy for the 
hedge, which includes the item and risk that is being hedged and the 
derivative that is being used, as well as how effectiveness will be assessed and 
ineffectiveness measured. The effectiveness of these hedging relationships 
is evaluated on a retrospective and prospective basis, typically using 
quantitative measures of correlation with hedge ineffectiveness measured and 

recorded in current earnings.If a hedge relationship is found to be ineffective, it no longer qualifies as an accounting hedge and hedge accounting would not be applied. Any gains 
or losses attributable to the derivatives, as well as subsequent changes in fair 
value, are recognized in Other revenue or Principal transactions with no 
offset on the hedged item, similar to trading derivatives.The foregoing criteria are applied on a decentralized basis, consistent with the level at which market risk is managed, but are subject to various limits 
and controls. The underlying asset, liability or forecasted transaction may be 
an individual item or a portfolio of similar items.For fair value hedges, in which derivatives hedge the fair value of assets or liabilities, changes in the fair value of derivatives are reflected in Other revenue or Principal transactions, together with changes in the fair 
value of the hedged item related to the hedged risk. These are expected to, 
and generally do, offset each other. Any net amount, representing hedge 

ineffectiveness, is reflected in current earnings. Citigroup™s fair value 

hedges are primarily hedges of fixed-rate long-term debt and available-for-

sale securities.For cash flow hedges, in which derivatives hedge the variability of cash flows related to floating- and fixed-rate assets, liabilities or forecasted 
transactions, the accounting treatment depends on the effectiveness of 
the hedge. To the extent these derivatives are effective in offsetting the variability of the hedged cash flows, the effective portion of the changes 
in the derivatives™ fair values will not be included in current earnings, but 
is reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These 
changes in fair value will be included in earnings of future periods when 
the hedged cash flows impact earnings. To the extent these derivatives are 

not effective, changes in their fair values are immediately included in Other revenue. Citigroup™s cash flow hedges primarily include hedges of floating-

rate debt and floating-rate assets including loans, as well as rollovers of 
short-term fixed-rate liabilities and floating-rate liabilities and forecasted 
debt issuances.For net investment hedges in which derivatives hedge the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, the accounting 
treatment will similarly depend on the effectiveness of the hedge. The effective 
portion of the change in fair value of the derivative, including any forward 
premium or discount, is reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss) as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment.For those accounting hedge relationships that are terminated or when hedge designations are removed, the hedge accounting treatment described 
in the paragraphs above is no longer applied. Instead, the end-user derivative 
is terminated or transferred to the trading account. For fair value hedges, any 
changes in the fair value of the hedged item remain as part of the basis of the 
asset or liability and are ultimately reflected as an element of the yield. For 
cash flow hedges, any changes in fair value of the end-user derivative remain 
in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are included in earnings of future periods when the hedged cash flows impact earnings. 
However, if it becomes probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will 

not occur, any amounts that remain in 
Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss) are immediately reflected in Other revenue.End-user derivatives that are economic hedges, rather than qualifying for hedge accounting, are also carried at fair value, with changes in value 
included in Principal transactions or Other revenue. Citigroup often 
uses economic hedges when qualifying for hedge accounting would be too 
complex or operationally burdensome; examples are hedges of the credit 
risk component of commercial loans and loan commitments. Citigroup 
periodically evaluates its hedging strategies in other areas and may designate 
either a qualifying hedge or an economic hedge, after considering the 
relative cost and benefits. Economic hedges are also employed when the 
hedged item itself is marked to market through current earnings, such as 
hedges of commitments to originate one-to-four-family mortgage loans to be 

held for sale and MSRs.Employee benefits expense includes current service costs of pension and 
other postretirement benefit plans (which are accrued on a current basis), 
contributions and unrestricted awards under other employee plans, the 
amortization of restricted stock awards and costs of other employee benefits.The Company recognizes compensation expense related to stock and option 
awards over the requisite service period, generally based on the instruments™ 
grant date fair value, reduced by expected forfeitures. Compensation cost 
related to awards granted to employees who meet certain age plus years-of-
service requirements (retirement eligible employees) is accrued in the year 
prior to the grant date, in the same manner as the accrual for cash incentive 
compensation. Certain stock awards with performance conditions or certain 
clawback provisions are subject to variable accounting, pursuant to which 
the associated compensation expense fluctuates with changes in Citigroup™s 
stock price.156The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S. and its states and municipalities, and the foreign jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax 
laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and 
the relevant governmental taxing authorities. In establishing a provision for 
income tax expense, the Company must make judgments and interpretations 
about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. The Company 
must also make estimates about when in the future certain items will affect 
taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign.Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be subject to review and adjudication by the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or may be 
settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company 
treats interest and penalties on income taxes as a component of Income tax expense.Deferred taxes are recorded for the future consequences of events that have been recognized for financial statements or tax returns, based upon 
enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to 
management™s judgment that realization is more-likely-than-not. FASB 

Interpretation No. 48, ﬁAccounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesﬂ (FIN 

48) (now incorporated into ASC 740, Income Taxes
), sets out a consistent 
framework to determine the appropriate level of tax reserves to maintain 
for uncertain tax positions. This interpretation uses a two-step approach 
wherein a tax benefit is recognized if a position is more-likely-than-not to 
be sustained. The amount of the benefit is then measured to be the highest 
tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized. FIN 48 also sets out 
disclosure requirements to enhance transparency of an entity™s tax reserves.
See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of the Company™s tax provision and related income tax assets 

and liabilities.Commissions revenues are recognized in income generally when earned. 
Underwriting revenues are recognized in income typically at the closing of 
the transaction. Principal transactions revenues are recognized in income on 
a trade-date basis. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a 
description of the Company™s revenue recognition policies for commissions 
and fees.Earnings per share (EPS) is computed after deducting preferred stock 
dividends. The Company has granted restricted and deferred share awards 
with dividend rights that are considered to be participating securities, 
which are akin to a second class of common stock. Accordingly, a portion 
of Citigroup™s earnings is allocated to those participating securities in the 
EPS calculation.Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders after the allocation of dividends and undistributed 
earnings to the participating securities by the weighted average number 
of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per 
share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other 
contracts to issue common stock were exercised. It is computed after giving 
consideration to the weighted average dilutive effect of the Company™s stock options and warrants, convertible securities and the shares that 
could have been issued under the Company™s Management Committee 

Long-Term Incentive Plan and after the allocation of earnings to the 

participating securities.Management must make estimates and assumptions that affect the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and the related footnote disclosures. Such 
estimates are used in connection with certain fair value measurements. See 
Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions 
on estimates used in the determination of fair value. The Company also 
uses estimates in determining consolidation decisions for special-purpose 
entities as discussed in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Moreover, estimates are significant in determining the amounts of other-
than-temporary impairments, impairments of goodwill and other intangible 
assets, provisions for probable losses that may arise from credit-related 
exposures and probable and estimable losses related to litigation and 
regulatory proceedings, and tax reserves. While management makes its 
best judgment, actual amounts or results could differ from those estimates. 
Current market conditions increase the risk and complexity of the judgments 
in these estimates.Cash equivalents are defined as those amounts included in cash and due 
from banks. Cash flows from risk management activities are classified in the 
same category as the related assets and liabilities.The Company has related party transactions with certain of its subsidiaries 
and affiliates. These transactions, which are primarily short-term in nature, 
include cash accounts, collateralized financing transactions, margin 
accounts, derivative trading, charges for operational support and the 
borrowing and lending of funds, and are entered into in the ordinary course 
of business.157In the third quarter of 2012, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) issued guidance relating to the accounting for mortgage loans 
discharged through bankruptcy proceedings pursuant to Chapter 7 of the 
U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Chapter 7 bankruptcy). Under this OCC guidance, 
the discharged loans are accounted for as troubled debt restructurings 
(TDRs). These TDRs, other than FHA-insured loans, are written down to their 
collateral value less cost to sell. FHA-insured loans are reserved for, based on 
a discounted cash flow model. As a result of implementing this guidance, 
Citigroup recorded an incremental $635 million of charge-offs in the third 
quarter of 2012, the vast majority of which related to loans that were current. 
These charge-offs were substantially offset by a related loan loss reserve 
release of approximately $600 million, with a net reduction in pretax income 
of $35 million. In the fourth quarter of 2012, Citigroup recorded a benefit 
to charge-offs of approximately $40 million related to finalizing the impact 
of this OCC guidance. Furthermore, as a result of this OCC guidance, TDRs 
increased by $1.7 billion, and non-accrual loans increased by $1.5 billion in 
the third quarter of 2012 ($1.3 billion of which was current).In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income 
(Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income. The ASU requires 
an entity to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of 
net income, and the components of other comprehensive income (OCI) 
either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two 
separate but consecutive statements. Citigroup has selected the two-statement 
approach. Under this approach, Citi is required to present components of net 
income and total net income in the Statement of Income. The Statement of 
Comprehensive Income follows the Statement of Income and includes the 
components of OCI and a total for OCI, along with a total for comprehensive 
income. The ASU removed the option of reporting other comprehensive 
income in the statement of changes in stockholders™ equity. This ASU became 
effective for Citigroup on January 1, 2012 and a Statement of Comprehensive 
Income is included in these Consolidated Financial Statements. See ﬁFuture 
Application of Accounting Standardsﬂ below for further discussion.In July 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-20, Receivables (Topic 
310): Disclosures about Credit Quality of Financing Receivables 
and Allowance for Credit Losses. The ASU required a greater level of 
disaggregated information about the allowance for credit losses and the 
credit quality of financing receivables. The period-end balance disclosure 
requirements for loans and the allowance for loan losses were effective for 
reporting periods ended on or after December 15, 2010 and were included 
in the Company™s 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, while disclosures 
for activity during a reporting period in the loan and allowance for loan losses accounts were effective for reporting periods beginning on 
or after December 15, 2010 and were included in the Company™s Forms 
10-Q beginning with the first quarter of 2011 (see Notes 16 and 17 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements). The troubled debt restructuring 
disclosure requirements that were part of this ASU became effective in the 
third quarter of 2011 (see below).In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-02, Receivables (Topic 310): 
A Creditor™s Determination of whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled 
Debt Restructuring, to clarify the guidance for accounting for troubled debt 
restructurings. The ASU clarified the guidance on a creditor™s evaluation of 
whether it has granted a concession and whether a debtor is experiencing 
financial difficulties, such as:Any shortfall in contractual loan payments is considered a concession.Creditors cannot assume that debt extensions at or above a borrower™s original contractual rate do not constitute troubled debt restructurings, 
because the new contractual rate could still be below the market rate.If a borrower doesn™t have access to funds at a market rate for debt with 
characteristics similar to the restructured debt, that may indicate that the 
creditor has granted a concession.A borrower that is not currently in default may still be considered to be 
experiencing financial difficulty when payment default is considered 
ﬁprobable in the foreseeable future.ﬂEffective in the third quarter of 2011, as a result of the Company™s adoption 
of ASU 2011-02, certain loans modified under short-term programs 
beginning January 1, 2011 that were previously measured for impairment 
under ASC 450 are now measured for impairment under ASC 310-10-35. 
At the end of the first interim period of adoption (September 30, 2011), 
the recorded investment in receivables previously measured under ASC 
450 was $1,170 million and the allowance for credit losses associated 
with those loans was $467 million. The effect of adopting the ASU was 
an approximate $60 million reduction in pretax income for the quarter 
ended September 30, 2011.In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-03, Transfers and Servicing 
(Topic 860): Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase 
Agreements. The amendments in the ASU remove from the assessment of 
effective control: (i) the criterion requiring the transferor to have the ability 
to repurchase or redeem the financial assets on substantially the agreed 
terms, even in the event of default by the transferee, and (ii) the collateral 
maintenance implementation guidance related to that criterion. Other 
criteria applicable to the assessment of effective control are not changed by 
the amendments in the ASU.158The ASU became effective for Citigroup on January 1, 2012. The guidance has been applied prospectively to transactions or modifications of existing transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2012. The ASU has not had a 
material effect on the Company™s financial statements. A nominal amount 

of the Company™s repurchase transactions that would previously have been 

accounted for as sales is now accounted for as financing transactions.In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement 
(Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement 
and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. The ASU created 
a common definition of fair value for U.S. GAAP and IFRS and aligned the 
measurement and disclosure requirements. It required significant additional 
disclosures both of a qualitative and quantitative nature, particularly for 
those instruments measured at fair value that are classified in Level 3 of 
the fair value hierarchy. Additionally, the ASU provided guidance on when 
it is appropriate to measure fair value on a portfolio basis and expanded 
the prohibition on valuation adjustments where the size of the Company™s 
position is a characteristic of the adjustment from Level 1 to all levels of the 
fair value hierarchy.The ASU became effective for Citigroup on January 1, 2012. As a result of implementing the prohibition on valuation adjustments where the size of 
the Company™s position is a characteristic, the Company released reserves of 

approximately $125 million, increasing pretax income in the first quarter 
of 2012.In October 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-26, Financial Services Œ 
Insurance (Topic 944): Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring 
or Renewing Insurance Contracts. The ASU amended the guidance for 
insurance entities that required deferral and subsequent amortization of certain costs incurred during the acquisition of new or renewed insurance 
contracts, commonly referred to as deferred acquisition costs (DAC). The 
new guidance limited DAC to those costs directly related to the successful 
acquisition of insurance contracts; all other acquisition-related costs must be 
expensed as incurred. Under prior guidance, DAC consisted of those costs that 
vary with, and primarily relate to, the acquisition of insurance contracts.The ASU became effective for Citigroup on January 1, 2012 and was adopted using the retrospective method. As a result of implementing the ASU, 
DAC was reduced by approximately $165 million and a $58 million deferred 
tax asset was recorded with an offset to opening retained earnings of $107 
million (net of tax).In March 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-11, Scope Exception Related 
to Embedded Credit Derivatives. The ASU clarifies that certain embedded 
derivatives, such as those contained in certain securitizations, CDOs and 
structured notes, should be considered embedded credit derivatives subject to 
potential bifurcation and separate fair value accounting. The ASU allows any 
beneficial interest issued by a securitization vehicle to be accounted for under 
the fair value option at transition on July 1, 2010.As set forth in the table below, the Company elected to account for certain 
beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles under the fair value 
option beginning July 1, 2010. Beneficial interests previously classified as 
held-to-maturity (HTM) were reclassified to available-for-sale (AFS) on 

June 30, 2010 because, as of that reporting date, the Company did not have the intent to hold the beneficial interests until maturity. The following table also shows the gross gains and gross losses that make up the pretax 
cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings for reclassified beneficial 
interests, recorded on July 1, 2010:July 1, 2010
Pretax cumulative effect adjustment to Retained earningsIn millions of dollars at June 30, 2010
Amortized costGross unrealized losses recognized in AOCI (1)Gross unrealized gains recognized in AOCIFair value
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ







•








•



•




š

159The Company elected to account for these beneficial interests under the fair value option beginning July 1, 2010 for various reasons, including:To reduce the operational burden of assessing beneficial interests for bifurcation under the guidance in the ASU; Where bifurcation would otherwise be required under the ASU, to avoid 
the complicated operational requirements of bifurcating the embedded 
derivatives from the host contracts and accounting for each separately. 
The Company reclassified substantially all beneficial interests where 
bifurcation would otherwise be required under the ASU; and To permit more economic hedging strategies without generating volatility 
in reported earnings.In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-06, Improving Disclosures 
about Fair Value Measurements. The ASU requires disclosure of the 
amounts of significant transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value 
hierarchy and the reasons for the transfers. The disclosures were effective 
for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009. Additionally, 
disclosures of the gross purchases, sales, issuances and settlements activity in 
Level 3 of the fair value measurement hierarchy were required for fiscal years 
beginning after December 15, 2010. The Company adopted ASU 2010-06 as 
of January 1, 2010. The required disclosures are included in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The FASB issued ASU No. 2010-10, Consolidation (Topic 810): 
Amendments for Certain Investment Funds in the first quarter of 2010. 
ASU 2010-10 provides a deferral of the requirements of SFAS 167 where the 
following criteria are met:The entity being evaluated for consolidation is an investment company, as defined in ASC 946-10, Financial ServicesŠInvestment Companies, 
or an entity for which it is acceptable based on industry practice to apply 
measurement principles that are consistent with an investment company;The reporting enterprise does not have an explicit or implicit obligation 
to fund losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the 
entity; andThe entity being evaluated for consolidation is not: Œa securitization entity;
 Œan asset-backed financing entity; or
 Œan entity that was formerly considered a qualifying special-purpose 
entity.The Company has determined that a majority of the investment entities managed by Citigroup are provided a deferral from the requirements of 
SFAS 167 because they meet these criteria. These entities continue to be 

evaluated under the requirements of FIN 46(R) (ASC 810-10), prior to the 
implementation of SFAS 167.Where the Company has determined that certain investment vehicles are subject to the consolidation requirements of SFAS 167, the consolidation 

conclusions reached upon initial application of SFAS 167 are consistent with 

the consolidation conclusions reached under the requirements of ASC 810-
10, prior to the implementation of SFAS 167.
160
In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-02, Comprehensive Income 
(Topic 220): Reporting of Amounts Reclassified out of Accumulated Other 
Comprehensive Income. The Accounting Standards Update (ASU) requires 
new footnote disclosures of items reclassified from accumulated OCI to net 
income. The requirements will be effective for the first quarter of 2013.
In July 2012, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2012-02, 
IntangiblesŠGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Indefinite-Lived 
Intangible Assets for Impairment. The ASU is intended to simplify the 
guidance for testing the decline in the realizable value (impairment) of 
indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill. Some examples of 
intangible assets subject to the guidance include indefinite-lived trademarks, 
licenses and distribution rights. The ASU allows companies to perform a 
qualitative assessment about the likelihood of impairment of an indefinite-
lived intangible asset to determine whether further impairment testing is 
necessary, similar in approach to the goodwill impairment test.The ASU became effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012.In December 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 
No. 2011-11, Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities. The standard requires new disclosures about certain 
financial instruments and derivative instruments that are either offset in 
the balance sheet (presented on a net basis) or subject to an enforceable 
master netting arrangement or similar arrangement. The standard requires 
disclosures that provide both gross and net information in the notes to the 
financial statements for relevant assets and liabilities. This ASU does not 
change the existing offsetting eligibility criteria or the permitted balance 
sheet presentation for those instruments that meet the eligibility criteria.Citi believes the new disclosure requirements should enhance comparability between those companies that prepare their financial 
statements on the basis of U.S. GAAP and those that prepare their financial 
statements in accordance with IFRS. For many financial institutions, the 
differences in the offsetting requirements between U.S. GAAP and IFRS result 
in a significant difference in the amounts presented in the balance sheets 
prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and IFRS. The disclosure standard 
will become effective for annual and quarterly periods beginning January 1, 2013. The disclosures are required retrospectively for all comparative 
periods presented.In December 2012, the FASB issued a proposed Accounting Standards Update 
(ASU), Financial InstrumentsŠCredit Losses. This proposed ASU, or 
exposure draft, was issued for public comment in order to allow stakeholders 
the opportunity to review the proposal and provide comments to the FASB, 
and does not constitute accounting guidance until such a final ASU is issued.The exposure draft contains accounting guidance developed by the FASB 
with the goal of improving financial reporting about expected credit losses 
on loans, securities and other financial assets held by banks, financial 
institutions, and other public and private organizations. The exposure draft 
proposes a new accounting model intended to require earlier recognition of 
credit losses, while also providing additional transparency about credit risk.The FASB™s proposed model would utilize a single ﬁexpected credit lossﬂ 
measurement objective for the recognition of credit losses, replacing the 
multiple existing impairment models in U.S. GAAP, which generally require 

that a loss be ﬁincurredﬂ before it is recognized.The FASB™s proposed model represents a significant departure from 
existing U.S. GAAP, and may result in material changes to the Company™s 

accounting for financial instruments. The impact of the FASB™s final ASU 

to the Company™s financial statements will be assessed when it is issued. 

The exposure draft does not contain a proposed effective date; this would be 
included in the final ASU, when issued.
The FASB and IASB, either jointly or separately, are currently working on 
several major projects, including amendments to existing accounting 
standards governing financial instruments, leases, consolidation and 
investment companies. As part of the joint financial instruments project, the 
FASB has issued a proposed ASU that would result in significant changes to 
the guidance for recognition and measurement of financial instruments, in 
addition to the proposed ASU that would change the accounting for credit 
losses on financial instruments discussed above.The FASB is also working on a joint project that would require all leases 
to be capitalized on the balance sheet. Additionally, the FASB has issued 

a proposal on principal-agent considerations that would change the way 
the Company needs to evaluate whether to consolidate VIEs and non-VIE 
partnerships. Furthermore, the FASB has issued a proposed ASU that would 

change the criteria used to determine whether an entity is subject to the 
accounting and reporting requirements of an investment company.
The principal-agent consolidation proposal would require all VIEs, including those that are investment companies, to be evaluated for 
consolidation under the same requirements. All these projects may have 
significant impacts for the Company. Upon completion of the standards, the 

Company will need to re-evaluate its accounting and disclosures. However, 

due to ongoing deliberations of the standard-setters, the Company is 
currently unable to determine the effect of future amendments or proposals.161The following divestitures occurred in 2011 and 2010 and did not qualify as Discontinued operations. Divestitures that qualified as Discontinued 
operations are discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.In April 2010, Citi completed the IPO of Primerica, which was part of Citi Holdings, and sold approximately 34% to public investors. Also in April 
2010, Citi completed the sale of approximately 22% of Primerica to Warburg 

Pincus, a private equity firm. Citi contributed 4% of the Primerica shares to 
Primerica for employee and agent stock-based awards immediately prior to 
the sales. Citi retained an approximate 40% interest in Primerica after the 
sales and recorded the investment under the equity method. Citi recorded an 
after-tax gain on sale of $26 million. Concurrent with the sale of the shares, 

Citi entered into co-insurance agreements with Primerica to reinsure up to 
90% of the risk associated with the in-force insurance policies.During 2011, Citi sold its remaining shares in Primerica for an after-tax 
loss of $11 million.During the third quarter of 2012, the Company executed definitive agreements to transition a carve-out of its liquid strategies business within 
Citi Capital Advisors (CCA), which is part of the Institutional Clients Group segment, to certain employees responsible for managing those operations. 
This transition will occur pursuant to two separate transactions, creating 
two separate management companies. Each transaction will be accounted 
for as a sale. The first transaction closed on February 28, 2013 and Citigroup 
retained a 24.9% passive equity interest in the management company (which 
will continue to be held in Citi™s Institutional Clients Group segment). The 
second transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2013.This sale is reported as discontinued operations for the second half of 2012 only. Prior periods were not reclassified due to the immateriality of the 

impact in those periods.The following is a summary as of December 31, 2012 of the assets held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the operations related to the CCA 
business to be sold:In millions of dollars2012Assets
$ 4
13ﬁ‘˝ˆ‘˙
19Total assets
$ 36
Summarized financial information for Discontinued operations for the operations related to CCA follows:In millions of dollars2012Total revenues, net of interest expense
$ 60

$(123)
Š
(44)
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
$ (79)
On March 1, 2011, the Company announced that Egg Banking plc (Egg), an indirect subsidiary that was part of Citi Holdings, entered into a definitive 
agreement to sell its credit card business to Barclays PLC. The sale closed on 
April 28, 2011.This sale is reported as discontinued operations for 2011 and 2012 only. 
2010 was not reclassified, due to the immateriality of the impact in that 
period. An after-tax gain on sale of $126
 million was recognized upon closing. Egg operations had total assets and total liabilities of approximately 
$2.7 billion and $39 million, respectively, at the time of sale.162Summarized financial information for Discontinued operations, including cash flows, for the credit card operations related to Egg follows:In millions of dollars2012Total revenues, net of interest expense
$ 1


$(96)

(1)
(34)Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes$(63)

In millions of dollars2012
$Š


Š
ŠNet cash provided by discontinued operations
$Š

On September 17, 2010, the Company announced that The Student Loan Corporation (SLC), an indirect subsidiary that was 80% owned by 
Citibank and 20% owned by public shareholders, and which was part of Citi 
Holdings, entered into definitive agreements that resulted in the divestiture 
of Citi™s private student loan business and approximately $31 billion of its approximate $40 billion in assets to Discover Financial Services (Discover) and SLM Corporation (Sallie Mae). The transaction closed on December 31, 
2010. As part of the transaction, Citi provided Sallie Mae with $1.1 billion of seller-financing. Additionally, as part of the transactions, Citibank, N.A. 
purchased approximately $8.6 billion of assets from SLC prior to the sale of SLC.This sale was reported as discontinued operations for the third and fourth quarters of 2010 only. Prior periods were not reclassified, due to the immateriality of the impact in those periods. The total 2010 impact from the 
sale of SLC resulted in an after-tax loss of $427
 million. SLC operations had total assets and total liabilities of approximately $31 billion and $29 billion, respectively, at the time of sale.Summarized financial information for discontinued operations, including 
cash flows, related to the sale of SLC follows:In millions of dollars2012
Total revenues, net of interest expense
$Š


$Š

Š

Š
Income (loss) from discontinued operations,  
net of taxes$Š

In millions of dollars2012

$Š


Š

Š
Net cash provided by discontinued operations$Š

The following is summarized financial information for the CCA business, 
the Egg credit card business, The Student Loan Corporation business and 
previous discontinued operations, for which Citi continues to have minimal 
residual costs associated with the sales.In millions of dollars2012
Total revenues, net of interest expense
$ 61


$(219)

(1)

(71)
Income (loss) from discontinued  operations, net of taxes
$(149)

In millions of dollars2012

$Š


Š

Š
Net cash provided by discontinued operations$Š

163Citigroup is a diversified bank holding company whose businesses provide a broad range of financial services to Consumer and Corporate customers 
around the world. The Company™s activities are conducted through the 
Global Consumer Banking (GCB), Institutional Clients Group (ICG), 
Corporate/Other and Citi Holdings business segments.The Global Consumer Banking segment includes a global, full-service 
Consumer franchise delivering a wide array of banking, credit card lending and 

investment services through a network of local branches, offices and electronic 

delivery systems and is composed of four Regional Consumer Banking (RCB) businesses: North America, EMEA, Latin America and Asia.The Company™s 
ICG segment is composed of Securities and Banking and Transaction Services
 and provides corporate, institutional, public sector and 
high net-worth clients in approximately 100 countries with a broad range of 
banking and financial products and services.Corporate/Other includes net treasury results, unallocated corporate expenses, offsets to certain line-item reclassifications (eliminations), the 
results of discontinued operations and unallocated taxes.The Citi Holdings segment is composed of Brokerage and Asset Management, Local Consumer Lending and Special Asset Pool.The accounting policies of these reportable segments are the same as those disclosed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The prior-period balances reflect reclassifications to conform the presentation in those periods to the current period™s presentation. 

Reclassifications during the first quarter of 2012 related to the transfer of 
the substantial majority of the Company™s retail partner cards business 

(which Citi now refers to as ﬁCiti retail servicesﬂ) from Citi HoldingsŠLocal Consumer Lending to CiticorpŠNorth America Regional Consumer 
Banking. Additionally, certain consolidated expenses were re-allocated to the 

respective businesses receiving the services.The following table presents certain information regarding the Company™s continuing operations by segment:Revenues, 
net of interest expense
 (1)Provision (benefit) 
for income taxesIncome (loss) from continuing operations (2)Identifiable assetsIn millions of dollars, except 
identifiable assets in
 billions2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛Global Consumer Banking$40,214
˝˙ˆˇ˛ˆ˘˝
$3,733
˝˙ˇ˘˚ˆ˝˛ˇ˘˘˛
$8,104
˝˝
$ 402
˝
Institutional Clients Group30,600˙˜ˇ˚˚˜
2,102
7,990
1,059Corporate/Other
192
(1,396)
(1,625)
248
$71,006
˝˝
$ 4,439
˝˝
$14,469
˝˝
$1,709
˝
(833)
(4,412)
(6,560)
156˜˜˘Total
$70,173
˝˝
$ 27
˙ˇ˘˜˛˝˜ˇ˜˙˙
$ 7,909
˝˛˛ˇ˛˚˙˝˛˚ˇˆ˘˛
$1,865
˝
Corporate/Other
North AmericaEMEALatin 
AmericaAsia•š
Corporate/Other


GCBICG•š
164For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, Interest revenue and Interest expense consisted of the following:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Interest revenue
$48,544
˝˝
1,269˛ˇ˜˘˜

3,418

7,525

6,802
580˘˛˙
Total interest revenue
$68,138
˝˝
Interest expense

$ 7,613
˝˝

2,817

190
727
9,188
Total interest expense
$20,535
˝˝
Net interest revenue$47,603
˝˝

10,848
Net interest revenue after  provision for loan losses
$36,755
˝˝
Trading account liabilities
ICGTrading account assets
š•š
The table below sets forth Citigroup™s Commissions and fees revenue for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The 
primary components of Commissions and fees revenue for the year ended 
December 31, 2012 were credit card and bank card fees, investment banking fees and trading-related fees.Credit card and bank card fees are primarily composed of interchange revenue and certain card fees, including annual fees, reduced by reward 
program costs. Interchange revenue and fees are recognized when earned, 
except for annual card fees, which are deferred and amortized on a straight-
line basis over a 12-month period. Reward costs are recognized when points 
are earned by the customers.Investment banking fees are substantially composed of underwriting and advisory revenues. Investment banking fees are recognized when Citigroup™s 

performance under the terms of the contractual arrangements is completed, 

which is typically at the closing of the transaction. Underwriting revenue 

is recorded in Commissions and fees, net of both reimbursable and non-
reimbursable expenses, consistent with the AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide 

for Brokers and Dealers in Securities (codified in ASC 940-605-05-1). Expenses 

associated with advisory transactions are recorded in Other operating expenses, net of client reimbursements. Out-of-pocket expenses are deferred and 

recognized at the time the related revenue is recognized. In general, expenses 

incurred related to investment banking transactions that fail to close (are not 

consummated) are recorded gross in Other operating expenses.Trading-related fees primarily include commissions and fees from the 
following: executing transactions for clients on exchanges and over-the-

counter markets; sale of mutual funds, insurance and other annuity 
products; and assisting clients in clearing transactions, providing brokerage 
services and other such activities. Trading-related fees are recognized 

when earned in Commissions and fees. Gains or losses, if any, on these 

transactions are included in Principal transactions (see Note 7 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements).The following table presents Commissions and fees revenue for the years ended December 31:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
$3,526 
˝˝
2,991

2,296

1,441˛ˇ˘˜˚
878ˆ˙˛

907˛ˇ˚˜˙
Š™ˆ˛

313˜˘˛˙˘˙

516˘˛ˆ
58˜˙
Total commissions and fees
$12,926
˝˝



165Principal transactions revenue consists of realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading activities. Trading activities include revenues from fixed 
income, equities, credit and commodities products, and foreign exchange 
transactions. Not included in the table below is the impact of net interest 
revenue related to trading activities, which is an integral part of trading 
activities™ profitability. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for information about net interest revenue related to trading activity. 

Principal transactions include CVA and DVA.The following table presents principal transactions revenue for the years ended December 31:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Global Consumer Banking$ 812
˝˝
Institutional Clients Group4,130
Corporate/Other
(192)
$4,750
˝˝
Local Consumer Lending$(69)
˝˝
Brokerage and Asset Management
5
Special Asset Pool
95
$ 31
˝˝
Total Citigroup
$4,781
˝˝

$2,301
˝˝˙ˇ˜˙˛
2,403˜ˇ˙˚ˆ
158˙ˆˆ˘
92

(173)˛ˇ˙˛˙
Total 
$4,781
˝˝

















The Company makes restricted or deferred stock and/or deferred cash awards, as well as stock payments, as part of its discretionary annual incentive award 
programs involving a large segment of Citigroup™s employees worldwide.Stock awards and grants of stock options may also be made at various times during the year as sign-on awards to induce new hires to join the 
Company, or to high-potential employees as long-term retention awards.
Long-term restricted stock awards and salary stock payments have also been used to fulfill specific regulatory requirements to deliver annual salary 
and incentive awards to certain officers and highly-compensated employees 
in the form of equity.
Consistent with long-standing practice, a portion of annual compensation for non-employee directors is also delivered in the form of equity awards.In addition, equity awards are made occasionally as additional incentives to retain and motivate officers or employees. Various other incentive award 

programs are made on an annual or other regular basis to retain and 
motivate certain employees who do not participate in Citigroup™s annual 

discretionary incentive awards.Recipients of Citigroup stock awards generally do not have any stockholder rights until shares are delivered upon vesting or exercise, or 
after the expiration of applicable restricted periods. Recipients of restricted 
or deferred stock awards, however, may be entitled to receive dividends or 

dividend-equivalent payments during the vesting period, unless the award 
is subject to performance criteria. (Citigroup™s 2009 Stock Incentive Plan 

currently does not permit the payment or accrual of dividend equivalents on 
stock awards subject to performance criteria.) Additionally, because unvested 

shares of restricted stock are considered issued and outstanding, recipients of 
such awards are generally entitled to vote the shares in their award during 
the vesting period. Once a stock award vests, the shares are freely transferable, 

unless they are subject to a restriction on sale or transfer for a specified 

period. Pursuant to a stock ownership commitment, certain executives have 
committed to holding most of their vested shares indefinitely.
All equity awards granted since April 19, 2005, have been made pursuant to stockholder-approved stock incentive plans that are administered by 

the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Citigroup Board of 
Directors (the Committee), which is composed entirely of independent 
non-employee directors.At December 31, 2012, approximately 86.9 million shares of Citigroup common stock were authorized and available for grant under Citigroup™s 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, the only plan from which equity awards are 
currently granted.The 2009 Stock Incentive Plan and predecessor plans permit the use of treasury stock or newly issued shares in connection with awards granted 
under the plans. Until recently, Citigroup™s practice has been to deliver shares 

from treasury stock upon the exercise or vesting of equity awards. However, 

newly issued shares were issued to settle certain awards in April 2010, and the 
vesting of annual deferred stock awards in January 2011, 2012 and 2013. The 
newly issued shares in April 2010 and January 2011 were specifically intended 
to increase the Company™s equity capital. The practice of issuing new shares 
166to settle the annual vesting of deferred stock awards is expected to continue in the absence of a share repurchase program by which treasury shares can 
be replenished. The use of treasury stock or newly issued shares to settle stock 
awards does not affect the amortization recorded in the Consolidated Income 
Statement for equity awards.The following table shows components of compensation expense relating to the Company™s stock-based compensation programs and deferred cash 

award programs as recorded during 2012, 2011 and 2010:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚


$ 444
˝˝
99

198

Š™

60˘˜


864
Total
$1,665
˝˝








Most of the shares of common stock issued by Citigroup as part of its equity 
compensation programs are to settle the vesting of restricted and deferred 
stock awards granted as part of annual incentive awards. These annual 
incentive awards generally also include immediate cash bonus payments and 
deferred cash awards, and in the European Union (EU), immediately vested 
stock payments.Annual incentives are generally awarded in the first quarter of the year based upon previous years™ performance. Awards valued at less than 

US$100,000 (or local currency equivalent) are generally paid entirely in 
the form of an immediate cash bonus. Pursuant to Citigroup policy and/
or regulatory requirements, employees and officers with higher incentive 
award values are subject to mandatory deferrals of incentive pay, and 

generally receive 25%-60% of their award in a combination of restricted or 
deferred stock and deferred cash awards. In some cases, reduced deferral 
requirements apply to awards valued at less than US$100,000 (or local 
currency equivalent). Annual incentive awards made to many employees in 
the EU are subject to deferral requirements between 40%-60%, regardless of 
the total award value, with 50% of the immediate incentive delivered in the 
form of a stock payment subject to a restriction on sale or transfer (generally, 

for six months).Deferred annual incentive awards are generally delivered as two awardsŠa restricted or deferred stock award under the Company™s Capital 

Accumulation Program (CAP) and a deferred cash award. The applicable 
mix of CAP and deferred cash awards may vary based on the employee™s 

minimum deferral requirement and the country of employment. In some 
cases, the entire deferral will be in the form of either a CAP award or 
deferred cash.Subject to certain exceptions (principally, for retirement-eligible employees), continuous employment within Citigroup is required to vest 
in CAP and deferred cash awards. Post-employment vesting by retirement-
eligible employees and participants who meet other conditions is generally 
conditioned upon their refraining from competition with Citigroup during 
the remaining vesting period, unless the employment relationship has been 
terminated by Citigroup under certain conditions.Generally, the CAP and deferred cash awards vest in equal annual 
installments over three- or four-year periods. Vested CAP awards are delivered 

in shares of common stock. Dividend equivalent payments are paid to 
participants during the vesting period, unless the CAP award is subject to the 
performance-vesting condition described below. Deferred cash awards are 

payable in cash and earn a fixed notional rate of interest that is paid only if 
and when the underlying principal award amount vests. Generally, in the EU, 

vested CAP shares are subject to a restriction on sale or transfer after vesting, 
and vested deferred cash awards are subject to hold-back (generally, for six 

months in each case).Unvested CAP and deferred cash awards made in January 2011 or later are subject to one or more clawback provisions that apply in certain 
circumstances, including in the case of employee risk-limit violations or 
other misconduct or where the awards were based on earnings that were 
misstated. Deferred cash awards made to certain employees in February 
2013 are subject to a discretionary performance-based vesting condition 
under which an amount otherwise scheduled to vest may be reduced in 
the event of a ﬁmaterial adverse outcomeﬂ for which a participant has 
ﬁsignificant responsibility.ﬂCAP awards made to certain employees in February 2013 and deferred cash awards made to certain employees in January 2012 are subject to a 
formulaic performance-based vesting condition pursuant to which amounts 
otherwise scheduled to vest will be reduced based on the amount of any 
pre-tax loss by a participant™s business in the calendar year preceding the 

scheduled vesting date. For the February 2013 CAP awards, a minimum 
reduction of 20% applies for the first dollar of loss.The annual incentive award structure and terms and conditions described above apply generally to awards made in 2011 and later, except where 

indicated otherwise. Annual incentive awards in January 2009 and 2010 of 
US$100,000 or more (or local currency equivalent) were generally subject 
to deferral requirements between 25%-40%. In 2010, because an insufficient 
number of shares were available for grant under the 2009 Stock Incentive 
Plan, an alternative award structure was applied, primarily for deferrals of 
incentive awards in the U.S. and U.K. Under this structure, portions of the 
amounts that would normally have been deferred in the form of CAP awards 
were instead awarded as two types of deferred cash awardsŠone subject to a 
four-year vesting schedule and earning a LIBOR-based return, and the other 

subject to a two-year vesting schedule and denominated in stock units, the 
value of which fluctuated based on the price of Citigroup common stock. 
Other terms and conditions of these awards were the same as the CAP awards 
granted in 2010. In 2009, some deferrals were also in the form of a deferred 
cash award subject to a four-year vesting schedule and earning a LIBOR-

based return, in addition to a CAP award.167Prior to 2009, a mandatory deferral requirement of at least 25% applied to incentive awards valued as low as US$20,000. Deferrals were in the form of CAP awards. In some cases, participants were entitled to elect to receive stock 
options in lieu of some or all of the value that would otherwise have been 
awarded as restricted or deferred stock. CAP awards granted prior to 2011 
were not subject to clawback provisions or performance criteria.The total expense recognized for stock awards represents the fair value of Citigroup common stock at the award date. Generally, the expense is 

recognized as a charge to income ratably over the vesting period, except for 
awards to retirement-eligible employees, and stock payments (e.g., salary 
stock and other immediately vested awards). Whenever awards are made 

or are expected to be made to retirement-eligible employees, the charge 
to income is accelerated based on the dates the applicable conditions to 
retirement eligibility are or will be met. If the employee is retirement eligible 
on the grant date, the entire expense is recognized in the year prior to the 

grant. For employees who become retirement eligible during the vesting 
period, expense is recognized from the grant date until the date eligibility 
conditions are met.Expense for immediately vested stock awards that generally were made in lieu of cash compensation (salary stock and other stock payments) is also 
recognized in the year prior to the grant in accordance with U.S. GAAP. (See 

ﬁOther EESA-related Stock Compensationﬂ below for additional information 
regarding salary stock.)Annual incentive awards made in January 2011 and January 2010 to certain executive officers and other highly compensated employees were 
administered in accordance with the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act 
of 2008, as amended (EESA), pursuant to structures approved by the Special 
Master for TARP Executive Compensation (Special Master). Generally the 

affected executives and employees did not participate in CAP and instead 
received equity compensation in the form of fully vested stock payments, 
long-term restricted stock (LTRS), and/or restricted and deferred stock 

awards, all of which were subject to vesting requirements over periods of up 
to three years, and/or sale restrictions. Certain of these awards are subject 
to discretionary performance-based vesting conditions. These awards, and 
CAP awards to participants in the EU that are subject to certain clawback 
provisions, are subject to variable accounting, pursuant to which the 
associated charges fluctuate with changes in Citigroup™s common stock price 

over the applicable vesting periods. For these awards, the total amount that 
will be recognized as expense cannot be determined in full until the awards 
vest. For stock awards subject to discretionary performance conditions, 
compensation expense was accrued based on Citigroup™s common stock price 

at the end of the reporting period, and the estimated outcome of meeting the 
performance conditions.In January 2009, certain senior executives received 30% of their annual incentive awards as performance-vesting equity awards conditioned primarily 
on stock-price performance. Because the price targets were not met, only 
a fraction of the awards vested. The fraction of awarded shares that vested 
was determined based on a ratio of the price of Citigroup™s common stock 

on January 14, 2013, to the award™s price targets of $106.10 and $178.50. 

None of the shares awarded or vested were entitled to any payment or accrual 
of dividend equivalents. The fair value of the awards was recognized as 
compensation expense ratably over the vesting period.This fair value was determined using the following assumptions:Weighted-average per-share fair value
$22.97Weighted-average expected life
3.85 yearsValuation assumptions


˛š˜˛ŸFrom 2003 to 2007, Citigroup granted annual stock awards under its Citigroup Ownership Program (COP) to a broad base of employees who 
were not eligible for CAP. The COP awards of restricted or deferred stock 

vest after three years, but otherwise have terms similar to CAP. Amortization 

of restricted and deferred stock awards shown in the table above for 2010 
included expense associated with these awards.As referenced above, from time to time, restricted or deferred stock awards, 
and/or stock option grants are made outside of Citigroup™s annual incentive 
programs to induce employees to join Citigroup or as special retention 
awards to key employees. Vesting periods vary, but are generally two to four 
years. Generally, recipients must remain employed through the vesting dates 
to vest in the awards, except in cases of death, disability, or involuntary 
termination other than for ﬁgross misconduct.ﬂ Unlike CAP awards, these 
awards do not usually provide for post-employment vesting by retirement-
eligible participants. If these stock awards are subject to certain clawback 
provisions or performance conditions, they may be subject to variable 
accounting.Deferred cash awards are often granted to induce new hires to join the Company, and are usually intended to replace deferred incentives awarded 

by prior employers that were forfeited when the employees joined Citigroup. 
As such, the vesting schedules and terms and conditions of these awards 
are generally structured to match the vesting schedules and terms and 
conditions of the forfeited awards. Expense taken in 2012 for these awards 
was $147 million.A retention award of deferred stock to then-CEO Vikram Pandit was made on May 17, 2011, and was scheduled to vest in three equal installments 
on December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015. The award was cancelled in its 
entirety when Mr. Pandit resigned in October 2012. Because of discretionary 

performance vesting conditions, the award was subject to variable accounting 

until its cancellation in the fourth quarter of 2012.Pursuant to structures approved by the Special Master in 2009, and in 
January and September 2010, certain executives and highly-compensated 
employees received stock payments in lieu of salary that would have 
otherwise been paid in cash (salary stock). Shares awarded as salary stock are 
immediately vested but become transferrable in monthly installments over 
periods of one to three years. There are no provisions for early release of the 
transfer restrictions on salary stock in the event of retirement, involuntary 
termination of employment, change in control, or any other reason.168Non-employee directors receive part of their compensation in the form of deferred stock awards that vest in two years, and may elect to receive part of 
their retainer in the form of a stock payment, which they may elect to defer.A summary of the status of Citigroup™s unvested stock awards that are not 
subject to variable accounting at December 31, 2012 and changes during the 
12 months ended December 31, 2012 are presented below:Unvested stock awards
SharesWeighted-average 
grant date fair value

50,213,124$50.90
33,452,02830.51
(2,342,822)39.15ł
(17,345,405)62.12
63,976,925$37.62

A summary of the status of Citigroup™s unvested stock awards that are 
subject to variable accounting at December 31, 2012, and changes during the 
12 months ended December 31, 2012, are presented below:Unvested stock awards
SharesWeighted-average 
award issuance 
fair value

5,290,798$49.30
2,219,21330.55
(377,358)43.92ł
(1,168,429) 50.16
5,964,224$42.50
At December 31, 2012, there was $886 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock awards, net of the forfeiture 
provision. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average 
period of 2.1 years. However, the cost of awards subject to variable accounting 

will fluctuate with changes in Citigroup™s common stock price.While the Company no longer grants options as part of its annual incentive 
award programs, Citigroup may grant stock options to employees or directors 
on a one-time basis, as sign-on awards or as retention awards, as referenced 
above. All stock options are granted on Citigroup common stock with exercise 
prices that are no less than the fair market value at the time of grant (which 
is defined under the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan to be the NYSE closing price 
on the trading day immediately preceding the grant date or on the grant 
date for grants to executive officers). Vesting periods and other terms and 
conditions of sign-on and retention option grants tend to vary by grant. 
Beginning in 2009, Citigroup eliminated the stock option election for all 
directors and employees (except certain CAP participants who were permitted 
to make a stock option election for awards made in 2009). This stock option 
election allowed participants to trade a certain percentage of their annual 
incentive that would otherwise be granted in CAP shares and elect to have the 
award delivered instead as a stock option.On February 14, 2011, Citigroup granted options exercisable for approximately 2.9 million shares of Citigroup common stock to certain of its executive officers. The options have six-year terms and vest in three equal 
annual installments beginning on February 14, 2012. The exercise price 
of the options is $49.10, which was the closing price of a share of Citigroup 
common stock on the grant date. On any exercise of the options before the 
fifth anniversary of the grant date, the shares received on exercise (net of the 
amount required to pay taxes and the exercise price) are subject to a one-
year transfer restriction.On April 20, 2010, Citigroup made an option grant to a group of employees who were not eligible for the October 29, 2009 broad-based grant 
described below. The options were awarded with an exercise price equal to the NYSE closing price of a share of Citigroup common stock on the trading 
day immediately preceding the date of grant ($48.80). The options vest in 
three annual installments beginning on October 29, 2010. The options have 
a six-year term.On October 29, 2009, Citigroup made a broad-based option grant to 
employees worldwide. The options have a six-year term, and generally vest in 

three equal installments over three years, beginning on the first anniversary of 

the grant date. The options were awarded with an exercise price equal to the 

NYSE closing price on the trading day immediately preceding the date of grant 

($40.80). The CEO and other employees whose 2009 compensation was subject 

to structures approved by the Special Master did not participate in this grant.In January 2009, members of Citigroup™s Management Executive 
Committee received 10% of their awards as performance-priced stock 
options, with an exercise price that placed the awards significantly ﬁout of 
the moneyﬂ on the date of grant. Half of each executive™s options have an 

exercise price of $178.50 and half have an exercise price of $106.10. The 
options were granted on a day on which the NYSE closing price of a share of 
Citigroup common stock was $45.30. The options have a 10-year term and 
vest ratably over a four-year period.
Generally, all other options granted from 2003 through 2009 have six-
year terms and vest ratably over three- or four-year periods; however, options 

granted to directors provided for cliff vesting. All outstanding options granted 
prior to 2009 are significantly out of the money.
Prior to 2003, Citigroup options had 10-year terms and generally vested at a rate of 20% per year over five years (with the first vesting date occurring 
12 to 18 months following the grant date). All outstanding options that were 
granted prior to 2003 expired in 2012.From 1997 to 2002, a broad base of employees participated in annual option grant programs. The options vested over five-year periods, or cliff 
vested after five years, and had 10-year terms but no reload features. No 
grants have been made under these programs since 2002 and all options that 
remained outstanding expired in 2012.All unvested options granted to former CEO Vikram Pandit, including 
premium-priced stock options granted on May 17, 2011, were cancelled upon 
his resignation in October 2012.169Information with respect to stock option activity under Citigroup stock option programs for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚OptionsWeighted- 
average exercise 
priceIntrinsic value 
per shareœ


œ


Outstanding, beginning of period37,596,029$69.60$Š
˝˝™˝˝™

Š ŠŠ
™™
(858,906)83.84Š
™˛˛˘š˛˚™
(1,716,726)438.14Š
™™
Š ŠŠ

Outstanding, end of period
35,020,397$51.20$Š
˝˝™˝˝™
Exercisable, end of period
32,973,444The following table summarizes the information about stock options outstanding under Citigroup stock option programs at December 31, 2012:Options outstandingOptions exercisable
Range of exercise prices
Number outstandingWeighted-average 
contractual life remainingWeighted-average 
exercise price
Number exercisable
Weighted-average 
exercise price
33,392,5413.1 years$ 42.4031,431,666
$ 42.02
69,9568.1 years56.7669,132
56.64516,5775.9 years147.33431,323
148.33754,3751.7 years243.85754,375
243.85206,6274.9 years335.97206,627
335.9780,3210.1 years543.6980,321
543.69
35,020,3973.1 years$ 51.2032,973,444
$ 51.13
As of December 31, 2012, there was $8.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options; this cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 0.3 years. Valuation and related 

assumption information for Citigroup option programs is presented below. Citigroup uses a lattice-type model to value stock options.For options granted during
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Weighted-average per-share fair value, 
at December 31N/A˝˛˙šˆ˚˝
Weighted-average expected life

N/A
Valuation assumptions

N/A

N/A˜š˙˙Ÿ
N/A˚š˚˚Ÿ˚š˚˚Ÿ
Expected annual forfeitures
N/A

170In October 2010, the Committee approved awards under the 2010 Key Employee Profit Sharing Plan (KEPSP), which may entitle participants to 
profit-sharing payments based on an initial performance measurement 
period of January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2012. Generally, if a 
participant remains employed and all other conditions to vesting and 
payment are satisfied, the participant will be entitled to an initial payment 
in 2013, as well as a holdback payment in 2014 that may be reduced 
based on performance during the subsequent holdback period (generally, 
January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013). If the vesting and performance conditions are satisfied, a participant™s initial payment will equal two-thirds 
of the product of the cumulative pretax income of Citicorp (as defined in the 
KEPSP) for the initial performance period and the participant™s applicable 
percentage. The initial payment will be paid after January 20, 2013 but no 
later than March 15, 2013.The participant™s holdback payment, if any, will equal the product 
of (i) the lesser of cumulative pretax income of Citicorp for the initial performance period and cumulative pretax income of Citicorp for the 
initial performance period and the holdback period combined (generally, January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2013), and (ii) the participant™s applicable percentage, less the initial payment; provided that the holdback 
payment may not be less than zero. The holdback payment, if any, will be 

paid after January 20, 2014 but no later than March 15, 2014. The holdback 
payment, if any, will be credited with notional interest during the holdback 

period. It is intended that the initial payment and holdback payment will 
be paid in cash; however, awards may be paid in Citigroup common stock 

if required by regulatory authority. Regulators have required that U.K. 

participants receive at least 50% of their initial payment and at least 50% of 
their holdback payment, if any, in shares of Citigroup common stock that 

will be subject to a six-month sales restriction. Clawbacks apply to the award.Independent risk function employees were not eligible to participate in the KEPSP, as the independent risk function participates in the determination 

of whether payouts will be made under the KEPSP. Instead, key employees 

in the independent risk function were eligible to receive deferred cash 
retention awards, which vest two-thirds on January 20, 2013 and one-third 
on January 20, 2014. The deferred cash awards incentivize key risk employees 
to contribute to the Company™s long-term profitability by ensuring that 

the Company™s risk profile is properly aligned with its long-term strategies, 

objectives and risk appetite, thereby, aligning the employees™ interests with 

those of Company shareholders.On February 14, 2011, the Committee approved grants of awards under the 2011 KEPSP to certain executive officers, and on May 17, 2011 to the 
then-CEO Vikram Pandit. These awards have a performance period of 

January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2012 and other terms of the awards are 
similar to the 2010 KEPSP. The KEPSP award granted to Mr. Pandit was 

cancelled upon his resignation in October 2012.Expense recognized in 2012 in respect of the KEPSP was $246 million.Certain executive officers were awarded a target number of performance 
share units (PSUs) on February 19, 2013 for performance in 2012. PSUs will 
be earned only to the extent that Citigroup attains specified performance 
goals relating to Citigroup™s return on assets and relative total shareholder 
return against peers over a three-year period covering 2013, 2014 and 2015. 
The actual number of PSUs ultimately earned could vary from zero, if 
performance goals are not met, to as much as 150% of target, if performance 
goals are meaningfully exceeded. The value of each PSU is equal to the value 
of one share of Citi common stock. The value of the award will fluctuate 
with changes in Citigroup™s share price and the attainment of the specified 
performance goals, until it is settled solely in cash after the end of the 
performance period.Citigroup has various incentive plans globally that are used to motivate and 
reward performance primarily in the areas of sales, operational excellence 
and customer satisfaction. These programs are reviewed on a periodic basis to 
ensure that they are structured appropriately, aligned to shareholder interests 
and adequately risk balanced. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 
2011, Citigroup expensed $670 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, for these plans globally.171The Company has several non-contributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain U.S. employees and has various defined benefit pension and 
termination indemnity plans covering employees outside the United States. 
The U.S. qualified defined benefit plan was frozen effective January 1, 2008 for most employees. Accordingly, no additional compensation-based 
contributions were credited to the cash balance portion of the plan for 
existing plan participants after 2007. However, certain employees covered under the prior final pay plan formula continue to accrue benefits. The 
Company also offers postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to 
certain eligible U.S. retired employees, as well as to certain eligible employees 
outside the United States.The following table summarizes the components of net (benefit) expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the Company™s U.S. qualified and nonqualified pension plans, postretirement plans and plans 
outside the United States. The Company uses a December 31 measurement 
date for its U.S. and non-U.S. plans.Pension plans
Postretirement benefit plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Qualified Plans$12

$199

$Š
˛
$29


565
367
44
116
(897)

(399)
(4)
(108)’˛˚˚š


Š
Š’˛š’˛š
Š
Š

(1)
’˛š’˛š
4
(1)
Š
96
77
4˛˛
25˜˚
Š
10˛
Š
Š
Š
35˛˚
Š
Š

Š
1
Š
Š
$(225)

$294

$43

$62

$42

$Š

$Š

$Š

Total net (benefit) expense
$(183)

$294

$43

$62

The Company™s funding practice for U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans is generally to fund to minimum funding requirements in accordance with 
applicable local laws and regulations. The Company may increase its 
contributions above the minimum required contribution, if appropriate. In 
addition, management has the ability to change its funding practices. For the U.S. pension plans, there were no minimum required cash contributions 
for 2012 or 2011. The following table summarizes the actual Company 
contributions for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, as well as 
estimated expected Company contributions for 2013. Expected contributions 
are subject to change since contribution decisions are affected by various 
factors, such as market performance and regulatory requirements.Pension plans
 (1)Postretirement plans
 (1)U.S. plans
 (2)Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛
2012˜˚˛˛
2012˜˚˛˛
2012˜˚˛˛

$Š

$270

$Š

$88


54
82
54
4Total Company contributions

$54

$352

$54

$92

’˛š
’˜š

172The estimated net actuarial loss and prior service cost that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net expense in 2013 are approximately $226 million and $3 million, 
respectively, for defined benefit pension plans. For postretirement plans, the 

estimated 2013 net actuarial loss and prior service cost amortizations are 
approximately $45 million and $(1) million, respectively.The following table summarizes the funded status and amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the Company™s U.S. 

qualified and nonqualified pension plans, postretirement plans and plans 
outside the United States.Pension plans
Postretirement plans
U.S. plans
 (1)Non-U.S. plansU.S. plansNon-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛2012˜˚˛˛2012˜˚˛˛2012˜˚˛˛Change in projected benefit obligation
$12,377

$6,262

$1,127

$1,368

12199Š29
56536744116 (13)17˜ŠŠ965923(24)457
(638)(306)(85)(54)ŠŠ10˛˚ŠŠ(254)ŠŠŠ(8)ŠŠ
Š1ŠŠŠ198Š86Projected benefit obligation at year end$13,268

$7,399

$1,072

$2,002

Change in plan assets

$11,991

$6,421

$74

$1,096

1,3037867277
Š3525492Š658ŠŠ(254)ŠŠ(638)(312)(143)(54)Š155Š86Plan assets at fair value at year end
$12,656

$7,154

$50

$1,497

Funded status of the plan at year end (2)$(612)

$(245)

$(1,022)

$(505)
Net amount recognized
$Š

$763

$Š

$Š


(612)(1,008)(1,022)(505)Net amount recognized on the balance sheet$(612)

$(245)

$(1,022)

$(505)

Amounts recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
$Š

$(2)
˛
$Š

$(1)
’˛š

13˛(33)15(4,904)(1,936)(123)(802)Net amount recognized in equityŠpretax$(4,891)

$(1,971
)$(122)

$(798)
Accumulated benefit obligation at year end$13,246

$6,369

$1,072

$2,002


‹‹
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
„
’˜š

173The following table shows the change in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛Balance, January 1, net of tax
 (1)$(4,282)

(2,400)963
214(155)
390Change, net of tax
$(988)

Balance, December 31, net of tax
 (1)$(5,270)

’˛š

Accumulated other 
comprehensive income (loss)’˜š
ˇ‹
At December 31, 2012 and 2011, for both qualified and nonqualified plans and for both funded and unfunded plans, the aggregate projected benefit 
obligation (PBO), the aggregate accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), and 
the aggregate fair value of plan assets are presented for pension plans with 
a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets and for pension plans 
with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets as follows:PBO exceeds fair value of plan assets
ABO exceeds fair value plan assets
U.S. plans
 (1)Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
 (1)Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛2012˜˚˛˛2012˜˚˛˛2012˜˚˛˛
$14,037

$4,792

$14,037

$2,608


13,9843,87613,9842,26312,6563,78412,6561,677’˛š„„

˜˚˛˛„„„
At December 31, 2012, combined accumulated benefit obligations for the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, excluding U.S. nonqualified plans, 
were less than plan assets by $0.2 billion. At December 31, 2011, combined 
accumulated benefit obligations for the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, 
excluding U.S. nonqualified plans, exceeded plan assets by $0.6 billion.174The Company utilizes a number of assumptions to determine plan obligations and expense. Changes in one or a combination of these 
assumptions will have an impact on the Company™s pension and 
postretirement PBO, funded status and benefit expense. Changes in the plans™ 
funded status resulting from changes in the PBO and fair value of plan assets 
will have a corresponding impact on Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss).Certain assumptions used in determining pension and postretirement benefit obligations and net benefit expenses for the Company™s plans are 

shown in the following table:At year end2012˜˚˛˛Discount rate−‹ƒ‹
3.90%3.60
 1.50 to 28.00ı
5.24Future compensation increase rate
−‹ƒ‹
N/A‡™€
1.20 to 26.00ı
3.93Expected return on assets
−‹ƒ‹
7.00
0.90 to 11.50ı
5.76During the year2012˜˚˛˛Discount rate
−‹ƒ‹
4.70%4.30
1.75 to 13.25ı
5.94Future compensation increase rate
−‹ƒ‹
N/A‡™€
1.60 to 13.30ı
4.04Expected return on assets
−‹ƒ‹
7.50
1.00 to 12.50ı
6.25’˛šı
’˜š






A discussion of certain key assumptions follows.Discount RateThe discount rates for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans were selected 
by reference to a Citigroup-specific analysis using each plan™s specific 
cash flows and compared with high-quality corporate bond indices for 
reasonableness. Citigroup™s policy is to round to the nearest five hundredths 
of a percent.Accordingly, at December 31, 2012, the discount rate was set at 3.90% for 
the pension plans and 3.60% for the postretirement plans. At December 31, 
2011, the discount rate was set at 4.70% for the pension plans and 4.30% for 
the postretirement plans.The discount rates for the non-U.S. pension and postretirement plans are selected by reference to high-quality corporate bond rates in countries that 
have developed corporate bond markets. However, where developed corporate 

bond markets do not exist, the discount rates are selected by reference to local 
government bond rates with a premium added to reflect the additional risk 
for corporate bonds in certain countries.Expected Rate of ReturnThe Company determines its assumptions for the expected rate of return on 
plan assets for its U.S. pension and postretirement plans using a ﬁbuilding 
blockﬂ approach, which focuses on ranges of anticipated rates of return for 
each asset class. A weighted range of nominal rates is then determined based 
on target allocations to each asset class. Market performance over a number 
of earlier years is evaluated covering a wide range of economic conditions to 
determine whether there are sound reasons for projecting any past trends.The Company considers the expected rate of return to be a long-term assessment of return expectations and does not anticipate changing this 
assumption annually unless there are significant changes in investment 
strategy or economic conditions. This contrasts with the selection of the 
discount rate and certain other assumptions, which are reconsidered 
annually in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.The expected rate of return for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans was 7.00% at December 31, 2012, 7.50% at December 31, 2011, and 7.50% 
at December 31, 2010. Actual returns in 2012, 2011 and 2010 were greater 
than the expected returns. The expected return on assets reflects the expected 
annual appreciation of the plan assets and reduces the annual pension 
expense of the Company. It is deducted from the sum of service cost, interest 

cost and other components of pension expense to arrive at the net pension 
(benefit) expense. Net pension (benefit) expense for the U.S. pension plans 
for 2012, 2011, and 2010 reflects deductions of $897 million, $890 million, 
and $874 million of expected returns, respectively.
175The following table shows the expected rate of return during the year versus actual rate of return on plan assets for 2012, 2011 and 2010 for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans:2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚

7.50%

11.79%
’˛š†ˇ
’˜š
For the non-U.S. plans, pension expense for 2012 was reduced by the expected return of $399 million, compared with the actual return of $786 
million. Pension expense for 2011 and 2010 was reduced by expected returns 
of $422 million and $378 million, respectively. Actual returns were higher in 

2012, 2011, and 2010 than the expected returns in those years.Sensitivities of Certain Key AssumptionsThe following tables summarize the effect on pension expense of a one-
percentage-point change in the discount rate:One-percentage-point increaseIn millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
−‹ƒ‹
$18


(48)
One-percentage-point decreaseIn millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
−‹ƒ‹
$(36)


64
Since the U.S. qualified pension plan was frozen, the majority of the prospective service cost has been eliminated and the gain/loss amortization 
period was changed to the life expectancy for inactive participants. As a 
result, pension expense for the U.S. qualified pension plan is driven more 
by interest costs than service costs, and an increase in the discount rate 
would increase pension expense, while a decrease in the discount rate would 
decrease pension expense.The following tables summarize the effect on pension expense of a one-percentage-point change in the expected rates of return:One-percentage-point increaseIn millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
−‹ƒ‹
$(120)


(64)
One-percentage-point decreaseIn millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
−‹ƒ‹
$120


64
Health-Care Cost-Trend Rate
Assumed health-care cost-trend rates were as follows:2012˜˚˛˛Health-care cost increase rate for U.S. plans
8.50%
5.00ł
2020˜˚˜˚A one-percentage-point change in assumed health-care cost-trend rates would have the following effects:One-percentage- point increaseOne-percentage- point decreaseIn millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛2012˜˚˛˛†ˇ

$2
˜
$(1)
’˜š
†ˇ

44(39)176Citigroup™s pension and postretirement plans™ asset allocations for the U.S. plans at December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the target allocations for 2013 by asset category based on asset fair values, are as follows:Target asset 
allocationU.S. pension assets 
at December 31,U.S. postretirement assets  
at December 31,Asset category
 (1)2012˜˚˛˛2012˜˚˛˛17%17%4545
55
111122˜˜22˜˜Total
100%˛˚˚Ÿ100%˛˚˚Ÿ
„„
‹
’˜š

Third-party investment managers and advisors provide their services to Citigroup™s U.S. pension plans. Assets are rebalanced as the Pension Plan 

Investment Committee deems appropriate. Citigroup™s investment strategy, 

with respect to its pension assets, is to maintain a globally diversified 
investment portfolio across several asset classes that, when combined with 
Citigroup™s contributions to the plans, will maintain the plans™ ability to meet 

all required benefit obligations.Citigroup™s pension and postretirement plans™ weighted-average asset 
allocations for the non-U.S. plans and the actual ranges at the end of 2012 
and 2011, and the weighted-average target allocations for 2013 by asset 
category based on asset fair values are as follows:Non-U.S. pension plans
Weighted-average 
 target asset allocationActual range  at December 31,Weighted-average 
at December 31,Asset category
2012˜˚˛˛2012˜˚˛˛ 0 to 63%16%0 to 10072
˛ 0 to 411˛0 to 10011Total
˛˚˚Ÿ100%˛˚˚ŸNon-U.S. postretirement plans
Weighted-average 
target asset allocation
Actual range at December 31,Weighted-average 
at December 31,Asset category
2012˜˚˛˛2012˜˚˛˛0 to 28%28%46 to 100˛˚˚
460 to 2626˛˛Total
˛˚˚Ÿ100%˛˚˚Ÿ177For information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of Level 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy and the valuation methodology utilized 
by the Company, see ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant 
Estimatesﬂ and Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Certain investments may transfer between the fair value hierarchy classifications during the year due to changes in valuation methodology and 
pricing sources. There were no significant transfers of investments between 
Level 1 and Level 2 during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011.Plan assets by detailed asset categories and the fair value hierarchy are as follows:In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
 (1)Fair value measurement at December 31, 2012
Asset categoriesLevel 1Level 2Level 3
Total
−‹ƒ‹
$ 677$ Š$ Š$ 677

4125Š417
177ŠŠ177
Š1,132Š1,132
−‹ƒ‹›
1,431ŠŠ1,431
−‹ƒ‹
Š112Š112
−‹ƒ‹
11,396Š1,397

Š387Š387

4346Š350

Š142Š142
Š1,1321,5242,656
Š55Š55

Š52Š52
ŠŠ130130

ŠŠ2,4192,419

59337Š630
ŠŠ142142
›
$3,295$4,796$4,215$12,306
$ 130$ 906$ Š$ 1,036

Š62430
Total assets
$3,425$5,708$4,239$13,372

$ (607)$ (60)$ Š$ (667)
Total net assets
$2,818$5,648$4,239$12,705


‹
178In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
 (1)Fair value measurement at December 31, 2011
Asset categories Level 1Level 2
Level 3Total
−‹ƒ‹





−‹ƒ‹›

−‹ƒ‹
˛˜˚˛˜˚
−‹ƒ‹
˜





˛˜˜˛˜˜









˜˚˛˜˛
›



˜˜˛
Total assets



Total net assets



‹
179In millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Fair value measurement at December 31, 2012
Asset categoriesLevel 1Level 2Level 3
Total
−‹ƒ‹
$12$12$Š$24

887748213
314,583Š4,614
26ŠŠ26
−‹ƒ‹›
Š1Š1
−‹ƒ‹
10478Š488

1,80614441,954

1628044970

ŠŠŠŠ
ŠŠ1616

Š1Š1
Š5611

Š40Š40
39219231
›
$2,138$6,154$297$8,589
$56$4$3$63
Total assets
$2,194$6,158$300$8,652
In millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Fair value measurement at December 31, 2011
Asset categories Level 1Level 2Level 3
Total
−‹ƒ‹
˛˜˛˜


˛˛

−‹ƒ‹›
˛˛
−‹ƒ‹
˛






˛˜

˛˛




›


Total assets

180The reconciliations of the beginning and ending balances during the period for Level 3 assets are as follows:In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categoriesBeginning Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2011
Realized gains (losses)Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, 
sales, and 
issuancesTransfers in 
and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2012
−‹ƒ‹


$Š


Š−‹ƒ‹

˛Š
’˛š
˛Š

Š
1,524
130


2,419˛˜˛
˛˜142Total investments

$4,215

˜˜˛
24Total assets
˛˛˜
$4,239
In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categoriesBeginning Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2010
Realized gains (losses)Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, 
sales, and 
issuancesTransfers in 
and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2011
−‹ƒ‹





’˛š˜˚−‹ƒ‹
’˜š
’˛š’˛š
˛
’˛š

’˛˚š




˛˜˛Total investments





Total assets


In millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categories Beginning Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2011
Realized gains (losses)Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, 
sales, and 
issuancesTransfers in 
and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2012



$48

’˛˚š’˜˜šŠ

’˛š4

˜˜4˛˜
16
˛6
219Total investments


$297

3Total assets


$300
181In millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categories Beginning Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2010
Realized gains (losses)Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, 
sales, and 
issuancesTransfers in 
and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2011

˜







˜’˜š
˛˜
’˛˚š
Total assets
˜˜’˛˜š

The Company™s global pension and postretirement funds™ investment strategies are to invest in a prudent manner for the exclusive purpose of 
providing benefits to participants. The investment strategies are targeted 
to produce a total return that, when combined with the Company™s 
contributions to the funds, will maintain the funds™ ability to meet all 
required benefit obligations. Risk is controlled through diversification of asset 
types and investments in domestic and international equities, fixed-income 
securities and cash and short-term investments. The target asset allocation 
in most locations outside the U.S. is to have the majority of the assets in 
equity and debt securities. These allocations may vary by geographic region 
and country depending on the nature of applicable obligations and various 
other regional considerations. The wide variation in the actual range of plan 
asset allocations for the funded non-U.S. plans is a result of differing local 
statutory requirements and economic conditions. For example, in certain 
countries local law requires that all pension plan assets must be invested in 
fixed-income investments, government funds, or local-country securities.The assets of the Company™s pension plans are diversified to limit the impact 
of any individual investment. The U.S. qualified pension plan is diversified 
across multiple asset classes, with publicly traded fixed income, hedge funds, 
publicly traded equity, and private equity representing the most significant 
asset allocations. Investments in these four asset classes are further diversified 
across funds, managers, strategies, vintages, sectors and geographies, 
depending on the specific characteristics of each asset class. The pension 
assets for the Company™s largest non-U.S. plans are primarily invested in 
publicly traded fixed income and publicly traded equity securities.The framework for the Company™s pensions oversight process includes 
monitoring of retirement plans by plan fiduciaries and/or management 
at the global, regional or country level, as appropriate. Independent risk 
management contributes to the risk oversight and monitoring for the 
Company™s U.S. qualified pension plan and largest non-U.S. pension plans. 
Although the specific components of the oversight process are tailored to the 
requirements of each region, country and plan, the following elements are 
common to the Company™s monitoring and risk management process:
allocation reviews
performance against benchmarks
The Company expects to pay the following estimated benefit payments in future years:Pension plansPostretirement benefit plans
In millions of dollarsU.S. plansNon-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans








182In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and 
Modernization Act of 2003 (Act of 2003) was enacted. The Act of 2003 

established a prescription drug benefit under Medicare known as ﬁMedicare 

Part D,ﬂ and a federal subsidy to sponsors of U.S. retiree health-care 

benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to 

Medicare Part D. The benefits provided to certain participants are at least 

actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D and, accordingly, the Company 

is entitled to a subsidy.The expected subsidy reduced the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) by approximately $93 million and $96 million as of 
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and the postretirement expense by 

approximately $9 million and $10 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively.
The following table shows the estimated future benefit payments without the 
effect of the subsidy and the amounts of the expected subsidy in future years:Expected U.S. 
postretirement benefit paymentsIn millions of dollarsBefore Medicare Part D subsidy
Medicare Part D subsidy
After Medicare
 Part D subsidy

˛˚

˛˚The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the Act of 2010) were 

signed into law in the U.S. in March 2010. One provision that impacted 
Citigroup was the elimination of the tax deductibility for benefits paid 
that are related to the Medicare Part D subsidy, starting in 2013. Citigroup 

was required to recognize the full accounting impact in 2010, the period 
in which the Act of 2010 was signed. As a result, there was a $45 million 
reduction in deferred tax assets with a corresponding charge to earnings from 
continuing operations.Certain provisions of the Act of 2010 improved the Medicare Part D option known as the Employer Group Waiver Plan (EGWP), with respect to the Medicare Part D subsidy. The EGWP provides prescription drug benefits that 

are more cost effective for Medicare-eligible participants and large employers. 
Effective April 1, 2013, the Company will sponsor and implement an EGWP 
for eligible retirees. The expected Company subsidy received under EGWP 
is expected to be at least actuarially equivalent to the subsidy the Company 

would have previously received under the Medicare Part D benefit.The other provisions of the Act of 2010 are not expected to have a significant impact on Citigroup™s pension and postretirement plans.
The Company participates in the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program 
(ERRP), which provides federal government reimbursement to eligible 
employers to cover a portion of the health benefit costs associated with 
early retirees. Of the $8 million the Company received in reimbursements 
in 2012, approximately $5 million was used to reduce the health benefit 
costs for certain eligible retirees. In accordance with federal regulations, the 
remaining reimbursements will be used to reduce retirees™ health benefit 
costs by December 31, 2014.The Company sponsors U.S. postemployment plans that provide income 
continuation and health and welfare benefits to certain eligible U.S. 
employees on long-term disability.As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the plans™ funded status recognized in the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet was $(501) million and 

$(469) million, respectively. The amounts recognized in 
Accumulated 
other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 were 
$(185) million and $(188) million, respectively.
The following table summarizes the components of net expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the Company™s U.S. 

postemployment plans.Net ExpenseIn millions of dollars201220112010
Service related expense 

$22

13˛˜˛˚

7
13
Total service related expense
$55

Non-service related expense
$24

Total net expense
$79

The following table summarizes certain assumptions used in determining the postemployment benefit obligations and net benefit expenses for the Company™s U.S. postemployment plans.
20122011
Discount rate3.10%Health-care cost increase rate 8.50%
5.00ł
2020˜˚˜˚The Company sponsors defined contribution plans in the U.S. and in certain non-U.S. locations, all of which are administered in accordance with local 
laws. The most significant defined contribution plan is the Citigroup 401(k) 
Plan sponsored by the Company in the U.S.Under the Citigroup 401(k) Plan, eligible U.S. employees received matching contributions of up to 6% of their eligible compensation for 2012 
and 2011, subject to statutory limits. Additionally, for eligible employees 

whose eligible compensation is $100,000 or less, a fixed contribution of 
up to 2% of eligible compensation is provided. All Company contributions 
are invested according to participants™ individual elections. The pretax 
expense associated with this plan amounted to approximately $389 million, 
$383 million and $301 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.183In millions of dollars2012 ˜˚˛˚
Current$(71)

3,889

300
Total current income taxes
$4,118

Deferred
$(4,943)

900

(48)
Total deferred income taxes
$(4,091)

Provision (benefit) for income tax on  
continuing operations before  noncontrolling interests (1)$27



(71)


(58)


(709)

369
265

311

(390)
Income taxes before noncontrolling interests$(256)

’˛š

‹
The reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the Company™s effective income tax rate applicable to income from continuing 

operations (before noncontrolling interests and the cumulative effect of 
accounting changes) for the years ended December 31 was as follows:2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Federal statutory rate
35.0%

3.0’˚‹˛š

(4.8)’˛˚‹˚š
(11.7)
†ˇ
(0.1)˜‹˚’˚‹˛š

(9.1)
›
(12.2)
„
0.2˚‹˜
Effective income tax rate 0.3%
’˛š

‹

ł
’˜š

‚›
Deferred income taxes at December 31 related to the following:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛Deferred tax assets$10,947


4,890
1,645
5,114
3,878
1,361›
28,0872,651$58,573

¤
ŠDeferred tax assets after valuation allowance$58,573

Deferred tax liabilities

$ (495)

(623)
(1,517)
(73)
(543)
$(3,251)

Net deferred tax asset$55,322

184The following is a roll-forward of the Company™s unrecognized tax benefits.In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Total unrecognized tax benefits at January
 1 $3,923


136

345

(1,246)

(44)’˛˛š

(3)’˛˛š

(2)
Total unrecognized tax benefits at December
 31 $3,109

Total amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2012, 2011 
and 2010 that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate are $1.3 billion, $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. The remainder of the 

uncertain tax positions have offsetting amounts in other jurisdictions or are 
temporary differences, except for $0.9 billion, which would be booked directly 
to Retained earnings.Interest and penalties (not included in ﬁunrecognized tax benefitsﬂ above) are a component of the Provision for income taxes.2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚In millions of dollarsPretaxNet
 of tax
›
˛$404$261
›
11471
’˛˜š
›
492315

’˛š

The Company is currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service and other major taxing jurisdictions around the world. It is thus reasonably 
possible that significant changes in the gross balance of unrecognized tax 
benefits may occur within the next 12 months, but the Company does not 
expect such audits to result in amounts that would cause a significant 
change to its effective tax rate, other than the following items.The Company may resolve certain issues with IRS Appeals for the 2003Œ2005 and 2006Œ2008 cycles within the next 12 months. The gross 
uncertain tax positions at December 31, 2012 for the items that may be 
resolved are as much as $655 million plus gross interest of $92 million. 
Because of the number and nature of the issues remaining to be resolved, the 
potential tax benefit to continuing operations could be anywhere in a range 
between $0 and $383 million. In addition, the audit for the companies in 
the Germany tax group for the years 2005Œ2008 may conclude in 2013. The 
gross uncertain tax positions at December 31, 2012 for this audit is as much 
as $112 million plus gross interest of $29 million. The potential tax benefit, 
most of which would go to discontinued operations, is anywhere in the range 
from $0 to $137 million.The following are the major tax jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate and the earliest tax year subject to examination:JurisdictionTax
 yearł
˜˚˛˚

Foreign pretax earnings approximated $14.7 billion in 2012, $13.1 billion in 2011 and $12.3 billion in 2010 (of which $0.1 billion loss, $0.2 billion 
profit and $0.1 billion profit, respectively, are in discontinued operations). 

As a U.S. corporation, Citigroup and its U.S. subsidiaries are currently 
subject to U.S. taxation on all foreign pretax earnings earned by a foreign 
branch. Pretax earnings of a foreign subsidiary or affiliate are subject to U.S. 
taxation when effectively repatriated. The Company provides income taxes 
on the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries except to the extent 
that such earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. At 
December 31, 2012, $42.6 billion of accumulated undistributed earnings of 
non-U.S. subsidiaries were indefinitely invested. At the existing U.S. federal 
income tax rate, additional taxes (net of U.S. foreign tax credits) of $11.5 
billion would have to be provided if such earnings were remitted currently. 

The current year™s effect on the income tax expense from continuing 

operations is included in the ﬁForeign income tax rate differentialﬂ line in 
the reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the Company™s effective 

income tax rate in the table above.Income taxes are not provided for the Company™s ﬁsavings bank base year 
bad debt reservesﬂ that arose before 1988, because under current U.S. tax 
rules, such taxes will become payable only to the extent such amounts are 
distributed in excess of limits prescribed by federal law. At December 31, 2012, 

the amount of the base year reserves totaled approximately $358 million 
(subject to a tax of $125 million).185The Company has no valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets (DTAs) at December
 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011.In billions of dollarsJurisdiction/componentDTA balance 
December 31, 2012
‚›

U.S. federal
 (1)

$ Š


ˇ
22.0
2.6˜‹˛22.00.9Total U.S. federal
$47.5

State and localł
$ 1.3


0.62.6˜‹˜Total state and local
$4.5

Foreign

$ 0.2


1.21.9Total foreign
$ 3.3

Total
$55.3

’˛š


’˜š
„


The following table summarizes the amounts of tax carry-forwards and their expiration dates as of December 31, 2012:In billions of dollarsYear of expiration
AmountU.S. consolidated tax return foreign tax credit carry-forwards
$0.4
6.65.31.3˜˚˜˚2.3˜˚˜˛1.9˜˚˜˜4.2Total U.S. consolidated tax return foreign tax credit carry-forwards$22.0
U.S. consolidated tax return general business credit carry-forwards

$0.3
0.40.40.50.50.5Total U.S. consolidated tax return general business credit carry-forwards
$2.6
U.S. subsidiary separate federal net operating loss (NOL) carry-forwards

$0.2
0.10.31.8Total U.S. subsidiary separate federal NOL carry-forwards
 (1) $2.4
New York State NOL carry-forwards

$0.1
7.21.90.4Total New York State NOL carry-forwards
 (1)$9.6
New York City NOL carry-forwards

$0.1
3.71.60.2Total New York City NOL carry-forwards
 (1)$5.6
APB 23 subsidiary NOL carry-forwards
¤
$0.2
Total APB 23 subsidiary NOL carry-forwards 
$0.2
’˛š186While Citi™s net total DTAs increased year-over-year, the time remaining 
for utilization has shortened, given the passage of time, particularly with respect to the foreign tax credit (FTC) component of the DTAs. Realization of 

the DTAs will continue to be driven by Citi™s ability to generate U.S. taxable 

earnings in the carry-forward periods, including through actions that 
optimize Citi™s U.S. taxable earnings.
Although realization is not assured, Citi believes that the realization of the recognized net DTAs of $55.3 billion at December 31, 2012 is more-

likely-than-not based upon expectations as to future taxable income in the 
jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies 

(as defined in ASC 740, Income Taxes
) that would be implemented, if 
necessary, to prevent a carry-forward from expiring. In general, Citi would 

need to generate approximately $112 billion of U.S. taxable income during 
the respective carry-forward periods, substantially all of which must be 
generated during the FTC carry-forward periods, to fully realize its U.S. 
federal, state and local DTAs. Citi™s net DTAs will decline primarily as 

additional domestic GAAP taxable income is generated.Citi has concluded that there are two components of positive evidence that support the full realization of its DTAs. First, Citi forecasts sufficient 

U.S. taxable income in the carry-forward periods, exclusive of ASC 740 tax 
planning strategies, although Citi™s estimated future taxable income has 

decreased due to the ongoing challenging economic environment, which will 
continue to be subject to overall market and global economic conditions. 
Citi™s forecasted taxable income incorporates geographic business forecasts 

and taxable income adjustments to those forecasts (e.g., U.S. tax exempt 
income, loan loss reserves deductible for U.S. tax reporting in subsequent 
years), as well as actions intended to optimize its U.S. taxable earnings.Second, Citi has sufficient tax planning strategies available to it under ASC 740 that would be implemented, if necessary, to prevent a carry-forward 

from expiring. These strategies include repatriating low taxed foreign source 
earnings for which an assertion that the earnings have been indefinitely 
reinvested has not been made, accelerating U.S. taxable income into, or 
deferring U.S. tax deductions out of, the latter years of the carry-forward 
period (e.g., selling appreciated intangible assets, electing straight-line 
depreciation), accelerating deductible temporary differences outside the 
U.S., and selling certain assets that produce tax-exempt income, while 
purchasing assets that produce fully taxable income. In addition, the sale 
or restructuring of certain businesses can produce significant U.S. taxable 
income within the relevant carry-forward periods. Based upon the foregoing discussion, Citi believes the U.S. federal and New York state and city NOL carry-forward period of 20 years provides 

enough time to fully utilize the DTAs pertaining to the existing NOL carry-

forwards and any NOL that would be created by the reversal of the future net 
deductions that have not yet been taken on a tax return.The U.S. FTC carry-forward period is 10 years and represents the most time sensitive component of Citi™s DTAs. Utilization of FTCs in any year is 

restricted to 35% of foreign source taxable income in that year. However, 

overall domestic losses that Citi has incurred of approximately $63 billion as 
of December 31, 2012 are allowed to be reclassified as foreign source income 
to the extent of 50% of domestic source income produced in subsequent 
years. Resulting foreign source income would cover the FTCs being carried 
forward. Citi believes the foreign source taxable income limitation will not be 
an impediment to the FTC carry-forward usage as long as Citi can generate 
sufficient domestic taxable income within the 10-year carry-forward period.Citi believes that it will generate sufficient U.S. taxable income within the 10-year carry-forward period referenced above to be able to fully utilize the 
FTC carry-forward, in addition to any FTCs produced in such period.187The following is a reconciliation of the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) computations for the years ended December 31:In millions, except per-share amounts
2012˜˚˛˛˝˙˛ˆ˜˚˛˚˝˙˛ˆIncome from continuing operations before attribution of noncontrolling interests $7,909
ˇˇ

219Net income from continuing operations (for EPS purposes)$7,690
ˇˇ

(149)˛˛˜
Š’Citigroup™s net income 
$7,541
ˇˇ

26Net income available to common shareholders
$7,515
ˇˇ


166Net income allocated to common shareholders for basic EPS$7,349
ˇˇ






11˛š˜Net income allocated to common shareholders for diluted EPS$7,360
ˇˇ
Weighted-average common shares outstanding applicable to basic EPS
2,930.6
‰
84.20.60.1˚−˛˚−˛ŠAdjusted weighted-average common shares outstanding applicable to diluted EPS3,015.5Basic earnings per share (2)
$2.56
ˇˇ

(0.05)˙˚−˚˛ˆNet income$2.51
ˇˇ
Diluted earnings per share (2)
$2.49
ˇˇ

(0.05)˙˚−˚˛ˆNet income $2.44
ˇˇ
˙˛ˆ˝˝˜˚˛˛−
˙˜ˆ˝

During 2012, 2011 and 2010 weighted-average options to purchase 35.8 million, 24.1 million and 38.6 million shares of common stock, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of earnings per share because the weighted-average exercise prices of $54.18, 
$123.47 and $102.89, respectively, were greater than the average market price 

of the Company™s common stock.
Warrants issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of the Troubled Asset Relief 
Program (TARP) and the loss-sharing agreement (all of which were 

subsequently sold to the public in January 2011), with an exercise price of 
$178.50 and $106.10 for approximately 21.0 million and 25.5 million shares of common stock, respectively, were not included in the computation of earnings per share in 2012, 2011 and 2010, because they were anti-dilutive.The final tranche of equity units held by the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) converted into 5.9 million shares of Citigroup common stock during the third quarter of 2011. Equity units of approximately 
11.8 million shares of Citigroup common stock held by ADIA were not included in the computation of earnings per share in 2010 because the exercise price of $318.30 was greater than the average market price of the 
Company™s common stock.Pursuant to the terms of Citi™s previously outstanding Tangible Dividend 
Enhanced Common Stock Securities (T-DECs), on December 17, 2012, the 

Company delivered 96,337,772 shares of Citigroup common stock for the 
final settlement of the prepaid stock purchase contract. The impact of these 
additional shares to the weighted-average common shares outstanding 
applicable to basic EPS for the year ended 2012 was negligible due to the 
timing of when they were issued. The full impact of the T-DECs settlement 

will be reflected in the basic earnings per share calculation for the first 
quarter of 2013. The impact of the T-DECs was fully reflected in the diluted 

shares and the diluted EPS for 2012, 2011 and 2010.During the fourth quarter of 2012, Citi issued approximately $2.25 billion of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. If declared by the Board of 
Directors, Citi will distribute preferred dividends of approximately $97 million relating to its preferred stock issuance during 2013.188
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under 
agreements to resell, at their respective carrying values, consisted of the 
following at December 31:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛$97
ˇ

˙˛ˆ138,549
122,665Total
$261,311
ˇ
˙˛ˆ˝
˘
˝


˝˝…−
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, at their respective carrying values, consisted of the following 
at December 31:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛$1,005
ˇ

˙˛ˆ182,330
27,901Total
$211,236
ˇ
˙˛ˆ˝
˘
˝


˝˝…−
The resale and repurchase agreements represent collateralized financing transactions. The Company executes these transactions through its broker-

dealer subsidiaries to facilitate customer matched-book activity and to 
fund a portion of the Company™s trading inventory efficiently. Transactions 

executed by the Company™s bank subsidiaries primarily facilitate customer 

financing activity.It is the Company™s policy to take possession of the underlying collateral, 
monitor its market value relative to the amounts due under the agreements 
and, when necessary, require prompt transfer of additional collateral in order 

to maintain contractual margin protection. Collateral typically consists of 
government and government-agency securities, corporate and municipal 
bonds, and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities. In the event 
of counterparty default, the financing agreement provides the Company with 
the right to liquidate the collateral held.The majority of the resale and repurchase agreements are recorded at fair value. The remaining portion is carried at the amount of cash 
initially advanced or received, plus accrued interest, as specified in the 
respective agreements.A majority of securities borrowing and lending agreements are recorded at the amount of cash advanced or received and are collateralized principally 
by government and government-agency securities and corporate debt and 
equity securities. The remaining portion is recorded at fair value as the 
Company elected the fair value option for certain securities borrowed and 
loaned portfolios. With respect to securities loaned, the Company receives 
cash collateral in an amount generally in excess of the market value of the 
securities loaned. The Company monitors the market value of securities 
borrowed and securities loaned on a daily basis and obtains or posts 
additional collateral in order to maintain contractual margin protection.189The Company has receivables and payables for financial instruments 
purchased from and sold to brokers, dealers and customers, which arise in 
the ordinary course of business. The Company is exposed to risk of loss from 
the inability of brokers, dealers or customers to pay for purchases or to deliver 
the financial instruments sold, in which case the Company would have to sell 
or purchase the financial instruments at prevailing market prices. Credit risk 
is reduced to the extent that an exchange or clearing organization acts as a 
counterparty to the transaction and replaces the broker, dealer or customer 
in question.The Company seeks to protect itself from the risks associated with customer activities by requiring customers to maintain margin collateral 
in compliance with regulatory and internal guidelines. Margin levels are 
monitored daily, and customers deposit additional collateral as required. 

Where customers cannot meet collateral requirements, the Company will 
liquidate sufficient underlying financial instruments to bring the customer 
into compliance with the required margin level.Exposure to credit risk is impacted by market volatility, which may impair 
the ability of clients to satisfy their obligations to the Company. Credit limits 

are established and closely monitored for customers and for brokers and 
dealers engaged in forwards, futures and other transactions deemed to be 
credit sensitive.Brokerage receivables and brokerage payables consisted of the following at December 31:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛
$12,191
ˇ

10,299Total brokerage receivables 
(1)$22,490
ˇ˜š˘ššš

$38,279
ˇ

18,734Total brokerage payables 
(1)$57,013
ˇ
˙˛ˆ˝
Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, at fair value, 
consisted of the following at December 31:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛Trading account assets

˙˛ˆı−⁄−
$31,160
ˇ
1,248801812
6072,441‰
$37,069
ˇ
ı−⁄−˝‰
ı−⁄−˝‰…
$17,472
ˇ

2,884˛˘˛š˜‰˝‰
$20,356
ˇ

$3,806
ˇ
89,239
35,224
˙˜ˆ54,62056,998˙˛ˆ5,352š˘˚š˛18,265Total trading account assets
$320,929
ˇ
Trading account liabilities


$63,798
ˇ

˙˜ˆ51,751Total trading account liabilities
$115,549
ˇ
˙˛ˆ˝
˝
˝…™





˙˜ˆ˝


190In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛
$288,695
ˇ

˝˙˛ˆ10,130
˙˜ˆ5,768
7,733Total investments 
$312,326
ˇ
˙˛ˆ˝

˙˜ˆ˝

˝˝
˝
˙ˆ
˝

˝−The amortized cost and fair value of securities available-for-sale (AFS) at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows:2012˜˚˛˛In millions of dollarsAmortized costGross unrealized gainsGross unrealized lossesFair 
value
Debt securities AFS
˙˛ˆı−⁄−
$46,001$1,507$163$47,345
ˇˇˇˇ
851Š86
˛
1ŠŠ1
˛’’˛

7,442148Š7,590
˜˜
43616
3449

‰
$53,965$1,672$166$55,471
ˇˇˇˇ
ı−⁄−˝‰
ı−⁄−˝‰…
$64,456$1,172$34$65,594
ˇˇˇ’ˇ

25,844404
126,247
˜
‰˝‰
$90,300$1,576$35$91,841
ˇˇˇ˜ˇ

˙˜ˆ$20,020$132$1,820$18,332
ˇˇˇˇ
93,25991813094,047


9,302398269,674

˙˛ˆ14,1888514314,130

2562Š258
’
‰‹Ł⁄
$281,290$4,783$2,320$283,753
ˇˇˇˇ
‹Ł⁄
$4,643$444$145$4,942
ˇˇˇˇ
Total securities AFS
$285,933$5,227$2,465$288,695
ˇˇˇˇ
˙˛ˆ˝
˝˝…™

˙˜ˆ˝


At December 31, 2012, the amortized cost of approximately 3,500 investments in equity and fixed-income securities exceeded their fair value 
by $2.465 billion. Of the $2.465 billion, the gross unrealized loss on equity securities was $145 million. Of the remainder, $238 million represents fixed-income investments that have been in a gross-unrealized-loss position for 

less than a year and, of these, 98% are rated investment grade; $2.082 billion represents fixed-income investments that have been in a gross-unrealized-loss 

position for a year or more and, of these, 92% are rated investment grade.The AFS mortgage-backed securities portfolio fair value balance of $55.471 billion consists of $47.345 billion of government-sponsored agency securities, and $8.126 billion of privately sponsored securities, of which the majority are backed by mortgages that are not Alt-A or subprime.As discussed in more detail below, the Company conducts and documents periodic reviews of all securities with unrealized losses to evaluate whether 
the impairment is other than temporary. Any credit-related impairment 

related to debt securities that the Company does not plan to sell and is not 
likely to be required to sell is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of 
Income, with the non-credit-related impairment recognized in accumulated 
other comprehensive income (AOCI). For other impaired debt securities, the 
entire impairment is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income.191The table below shows the fair value of AFS securities that have been in an unrealized loss position for less than 12 months or for 12 months or longer as of December 31, 2012 and 2011:Less than 12 months12 months or longer
Total
In millions of dollarsFair 
value
Gross unrealized lossesFair 
value
Gross unrealized lossesFair 
value
Gross unrealized lossesDecember 31, 2012
Securities AFS
ı−⁄−
$8,759$138$464$25$9,223$ 163
15Š5Š20Š

5Š7Š12Š
29Š24
353
3‰
$8,808$138$500$28$9,308$ 166
ı−⁄−˝‰
ı−⁄−˝‰…
$10,558$34$Š$Š$10,558$ 34

4961ŠŠ496
1‰˝‰
$11,054$35$Š$Š$11,054$ 35

$10$Š$11,095$1,820$11,105$1,820
22,806543,9107626,716130

1,4208225181,64526
1,94242,8881394,830143
‹Ł⁄
151764144779145
Total securities AFS
$46,055$240$19,382$2,225$65,437$2,465
December 31, 2011
Securities AFS
ı−⁄−
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˜š˛


˜˜’˜˜
˛

‰
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ı−⁄−˝‰
ı−⁄−˝‰…
ˇˇ˝’ˇ˝’ˇ˝’ˇˇ˝’

˜’’
˜‰˝‰
ˇˇ˝˜ˇ˝’ˇ˝’ˇˇ˝˜

ˇˇ˝˜ˇˇˇˇ
˜˛˛



’’’’
‹Ł⁄

Total securities AFS
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
192The following table presents the amortized cost and fair value of AFS debt securities by contractual maturity dates as of December 31, 2012 and 2011:2012˜˚˛˛In millions of dollarsAmortized costFair value

Mortgage-backed securities (1)$10$10
ˇ’ˇ’
3653741,9922,124

˙˜ˆ51,59852,963

Total
$53,965$55,471
ˇˇ
U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
$9,492$9,499
ˇˇ
75,96777,267

2,1712,408

˙˜ˆ2,6702,667
Total
$90,300$91,841
ˇˇ
State and municipal
$208$208
ˇˇ
3,2213,223
155165˙˜ˆ16,43614,736

Total
$20,020$18,332
ˇˇ
Foreign government

$34,873$34,869
ˇˇ
49,54849,933

7,2397,380

˙˜ˆ1,5991,865
Total
$93,259$94,047
ˇˇ
All other (3)$1,001$1,009
ˇˇ
11,28511,351

4,3304,505

˙˜ˆ7,1307,197

Total
$23,746$24,062
ˇˇ
Total debt securities AFS
$281,290$283,753
ˇˇ
˙˛ˆ˝
˙˜ˆ˝
˝
˝
The following table presents interest and dividends on investments:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
‰
$6,509
ˇˇ

683
333
Total interest and dividends
$7,525
ˇˇ
The following table presents realized gains and losses on all investments. The gross realized investment losses exclude losses from other-than-
temporary impairment:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
$3,663
ˇˇ
(412)
Net realized gains$3,251
ˇˇ
During 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company sold various debt securities that were classified as held-to-maturity. These sales were in response to a 

significant deterioration in the creditworthiness of the issuers or securities. In 
addition, during 2012 certain securities were reclassified to AFS investments 
in response to significant credit deterioration. The Company intended to 
sell the securities at the time of reclassification to AFS investments and 
recorded other-than-temporary impairment reflected in the following 

table. The securities sold during 2012, 2011 and 2010 had carrying values 
of $2,110 million, $1,612 million and $413 million respectively, and the Company recorded realized losses of $187 million, $299 million and $49 million, respectively. The securities reclassified to AFS investments during 2012 totaled $244 million and the Company recorded other-than-temporary impairment of $59 million.193The carrying value and fair value of debt securities held-to-maturity (HTM) at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows:In millions of dollarsAmortized cost (1)Net unrealized loss recognized in AOCICarrying 
value
 (2)Gross unrealized gainsGross unrealized lossesFair 
value
December 31, 2012
Debt securities held-to-maturity
$258
$49$209$30$4$235
2,9698372,132
6532502,535
20143158
1321150

2,4884012,087
50812,056
123Š123
12122
‰
$6,039
$1,330$4,709$747$358$5,098

$1,278
$73$1,205$89$37$1,257
2,987Š2,987
ŠŠ2,987

829103726
73Š799
52926503
88503
Total debt securities held-to-maturity
$11,662
$1,532$10,130$917$403$10,644
December 31, 2011
Debt securities held-to-maturity
ˇ
ˇˇˇ˜˛ˇ˜˚ˇ

˜˚

˛š˛



˛

‰
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ

ˇ
ˇˇˇˇš˜ˇ
’’’
’’’


’
˛˘˚˚˚

Total debt securities held-to-maturity
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
˙˛ˆ˝Trading account assets˘
−‹Ł⁄˘

˙˜ˆ˝
˝


‹‚”†−
˝
˝˝…™

˝
˝−
The Company has the positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity absent any unforeseen further significant changes in 
circumstances, including deterioration in credit or with regard to regulatory 
capital requirements.The net unrealized losses classified in AOCI relate to debt securities reclassified from AFS investments to HTM investments in a prior year. 

Additionally, for HTM securities that have suffered credit impairment, 

declines in fair value for reasons other than credit losses are recorded in AOCI, while credit-related impairment is recognized in earnings. The AOCI 
balance for HTM securities is amortized over the remaining life of the related 
securities as an adjustment of yield in a manner consistent with the accretion 
of discount on the same debt securities. This will have no impact on the 
Company™s net income because the amortization of the unrealized holding 

loss reported in equity will offset the effect on interest income of the accretion 
of the discount on these securities.194During the first quarter of 2011, the Company determined that it no longer had the intent to hold $12.7 billion of HTM securities to maturity. As a result, the Company reclassified $10.0 billion carrying value of mortgage-backed, other asset-backed, state and municipal, and corporate debt securities from Investments held-to-maturity to Trading account assets
 and sold the remaining $2.7 billion of such securities. As a result of these actions, a net pretax loss of $709 million ($427 million after-tax) was recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income, composed of gross unrealized 
gains of $311 million included in Other revenue, gross unrealized losses of $1,387 million included in Other-than-temporary-impairment losses on 
investments, and net realized gains of $367 million included in Realized gains (losses) on sales of investments. Prior to the reclassification, unrealized losses totaling $1,656 million pretax ($1,012 million after-tax) had been reflected in AOCI and have now been reflected in the Consolidated 
Statement of Income, as detailed above. During 2011, the Company sold 
substantially all of the $12.7 billion of HTM securities.Citigroup reclassified and sold the securities as part of its overall efforts to mitigate its risk-weighted assets (RWA) in order to comply with significant 
new regulatory capital requirements which, although not yet implemented 
or formally adopted, are nonetheless currently being used to assess the 
forecasted capital adequacy of the Company and other large U.S. banking 
organizations. These regulatory capital changes, which were largely 
unforeseen when the Company initially reclassified the debt securities from 
Trading account assets
 and Investments available-for-sale to 
Investments 
held-to-maturity in the fourth quarter of 2008, include: (i) the U.S. Basel II credit and operational risk capital standards; (ii) the Basel Committee™s agreed-upon, and the U.S.-proposed, revisions to the market risk capital 
rules, which significantly increased the risk weightings for certain trading 
book positions; (iii) the Basel Committee™s substantial issuance of Basel
 III, which raised the quantity and quality of required regulatory capital and 
materially increased RWA for securitization exposures; and (iv) certain 
regulatory capital-related provisions in The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 

and Consumer Protection Act of 2010.The table below shows the fair value of debt securities in HTM that have been in an unrecognized loss position for less than 12 months or for 12 months or longer as of December 31, 2012 and 2011:Less than 12 months12 months or longer
Total
In millions of dollarsFair 
value
Gross unrecognized lossesFair 
value
Gross unrecognized lossesFair 
value
Gross unrecognized lossesDecember 31, 2012
Debt securities held-to-maturity
$88$7$1,522$351$1,610$358

ŠŠ383
37 383
37294ŠŠ
Š294
Š
ŠŠŠ
ŠŠ
ŠŠŠ406
8406
8Total debt securities held-to-maturity
$382$7$2,311$396$2,693$403
December 31, 2011
Debt securities held-to-maturity
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ

’’
š˜
š˜’’’
’’
’
’’

š˛

Total debt securities held-to-maturity
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
Excluded from the gross unrecognized losses presented in the above table are the $1.5 billion and $2.3 billion of gross unrealized losses recorded in AOCI as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, mainly related to the HTM securities that were reclassified from AFS investments. Virtually all of these unrecognized losses relate to securities that have 

been in a loss position for 12 months or longer at December 31, 2012 
and December 31, 2011.195The following table presents the carrying value and fair value of HTM debt securities by contractual maturity dates as of December 31, 2012 and 2011:December 31, 2012
˝˜˚˛˛
In millions of dollarsCarrying valueFair value

Mortgage-backed securities$Š$Š
ˇ’ˇ’
6967
5454
˙˛ˆ4,5864,977

Total
$4,709$5,098
ˇˇ
State and municipal
$14$15
ˇˇ
3637
5862
˙˛ˆ1,0971,143

Total
$1,205$1,257
ˇˇ
Foreign government

$Š$Š
ˇ’ˇ’
2,9872,987
’’
ŠŠ’’
˙˛ˆŠŠ’’
Total
$2,987$2,987
ˇ’ˇ’
All other (2)$Š$Š
ˇ˜˛ˇ˜˛
728802

ŠŠ
˙˛ˆ501500

Total
$1,229$1,302
ˇˇ
Total debt securities held-to-maturity
$10,130$10,644
ˇˇ
˙˛ˆ˝
˝
˙˜ˆ˝
196Overview
The Company conducts and documents periodic reviews of all securities 
with unrealized losses to evaluate whether the impairment is other 
than temporary.An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses that are 
determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in AOCI for 
AFS securities. Losses related to HTM securities are not recorded, as these 
investments are carried at amortized cost. For securities transferred to HTM 
from Trading account assets
, amortized cost is defined as the fair value of the securities at the date of transfer, plus any accretion income and less any 

impairment recognized in earnings subsequent to transfer. For securities 

transferred to HTM from AFS, amortized cost is defined as the original 
purchase cost, plus or minus any accretion or amortization of a purchase 
discount or premium, less any impairment recognized in earnings.Regardless of the classification of the securities as AFS or HTM, the Company has assessed each position with an unrealized loss for other-than-

temporary impairment (OTTI). Factors considered in determining whether a 
loss is temporary include:the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost;the severity of the impairment;the cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer;activity in the market of the issuer that may indicate adverse credit 
conditions; andthe Company™s ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of 

time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.
The Company™s review for impairment generally entails:
identification and evaluation of investments that have indications of possible impairment;analysis of individual investments that have fair values less than 
amortized cost, including consideration of the length of time the 
investment has been in an unrealized loss position and the expected 
recovery period;discussion of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors or 
triggers that could cause individual investments to qualify as having 
other-than-temporary impairment and those that would not support 
other-than-temporary impairment; anddocumentation of the results of these analyses, as required under 
business policies.Debt
Under the guidance for debt securities, OTTI is recognized in earnings 
for debt securities that the Company has an intent to sell or that the 
Company believes it is more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell 
prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. For those securities that the 
Company does not intend to sell or expect to be required to sell, credit-
related impairment is recognized in earnings, with the non-credit-related 
impairment recorded in AOCI.For debt securities that are not deemed to be credit impaired, management assesses whether it intends to sell or whether it is more-likely-
than-not that it would be required to sell the investment before the expected 
recovery of the amortized cost basis. In most cases, management has asserted 
that it has no intent to sell and that it believes it is not likely to be required to 
sell the investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Where such an 
assertion cannot be made, the security™s decline in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary and is recorded in earnings.For debt securities, a critical component of the evaluation for OTTI is the identification of credit impaired securities, where management does not 
expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost 
basis of the security. For securities purchased and classified as AFS with the 

expectation of receiving full principal and interest cash flows as of the date of 
purchase, this analysis considers the likelihood of receiving all contractual 
principal and interest. For securities reclassified out of the trading category in 
the fourth quarter of 2008, the analysis considers the likelihood of receiving 
the expected principal and interest cash flows anticipated as of the date of 
reclassification in the fourth quarter of 2008. The extent of the Company™s 

analysis regarding credit quality and the stress on assumptions used in the 
analysis have been refined for securities where the current fair value or other 
characteristics of the security warrant.EquityFor equity securities, management considers the various factors described 
above, including its intent and ability to hold the equity security for a period 
of time sufficient for recovery to cost or whether it is more-likely-than-not 
that the Company will be required to sell the security prior to recovery of 
its cost basis. Where management lacks that intent or ability, the security™s 
decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and is recorded in 
earnings. AFS equity securities deemed other-than-temporarily impaired are 
written down to fair value, with the full difference between fair value and cost 
recognized in earnings.Management assesses equity method investments with fair value less than carrying value for OTTI. Fair value is measured as price multiplied 
by quantity if the investee has publicly listed securities. If the investee is 
not publicly listed, other methods are used (see Note 25 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements).For impaired equity method investments that Citi plans to sell prior to recovery of value or would likely be required to sell, with no expectation that 
the fair value will recover prior to the expected sale date, the full impairment 
is recognized in earnings as OTTI regardless of severity and duration. The 
measurement of the OTTI does not include partial projected recoveries 
subsequent to the balance sheet date.197For impaired equity method investments that management does not plan to sell prior to recovery of value and is not likely to be required to sell, the evaluation of whether an impairment is other-than-temporary is based on 

(i) whether and when an equity method investment will recover in value and 
(ii) whether the investor has the intent and ability to hold that investment for 
a period of time sufficient to recover the value. The determination of whether 
the impairment is considered other-than-temporary is based on all of the 

following indicators, regardless of the time and extent of impairment:Cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events that may influence 
the operations of the issuer;Intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to 
allow for any anticipated recovery in market value; andLength of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the 
carrying value.The sections below describe current circumstances related to certain of the Company™s significant equity method investments, specific impairments 
and the Company™s process for identifying credit-related impairments 

in its security types with the most significant unrealized losses as of 
December 31, 2012.AkbankIn March 2012, Citi decided to reduce its ownership interest in Akbank 
T.A.S., an equity investment in Turkey (Akbank), to below 10%. As of 
March 31, 2012, Citi held a 20% equity interest in Akbank, which it purchased in January 2007, accounted for as an equity method investment. As a result of its decision to sell its share holdings in Akbank, in the first quarter of 
2012 Citi recorded an impairment charge related to its total investment 
in Akbank amounting to approximately $1.2 billion pretax ($763 million after-tax). This impairment charge was primarily driven by the recognition of all net investment foreign currency hedging and translation losses 
previously reflected in AOCI as well as a reduction in the carrying value of the 
investment to reflect the market price of Akbank™s shares. The impairment charge was recorded in other-than-temporary impairment losses on 
investments in the Consolidated Statement of Income. During the second 
quarter of 2012, Citi sold a 10.1% stake in Akbank, resulting in a loss on sale 
of $424 million ($274 million after-tax), recorded in Other revenue. As of December 31, 2012, the remaining 9.9% stake in Akbank is recorded within 
marketable equity securities available-for-sale.MSSBOn September 17, 2012, Citi sold to Morgan Stanley a 14% interest (the 
ﬁ14% Interestﬂ) in MSSB, to which Morgan Stanley exercised its purchase 
option on June 1, 2012. Morgan Stanley paid to Citi $1.89 billion in cash as the purchase price of the 14% Interest. The purchase price was based on an 
implied 100% valuation of MSSB of $13.5 billion, as agreed between Morgan Stanley and Citi pursuant to an agreement dated September 11, 2012. The 
related approximate $4.5 billion in deposits were transferred to Morgan Stanley at no premium, as agreed between the parties.In addition, Morgan Stanley has agreed, subject to obtaining regulatory approval, to purchase Citi™s remaining 35% interest in MSSB no later than June 1, 2015 at a purchase price of $4.725 billion, which is based on the same implied 100% valuation of MSSB of $13.5 billion.Prior to the September 2012 sale, Citi™s carrying value of its 49% interest in MSSB was approximately $11.3 billion. As a result of the agreement entered into with Morgan Stanley on September 11, 2012, Citi recorded 
a charge to net income in the third quarter of 2012 of approximately 
$2.9 billion after-tax ($4.7 billion pretax), consisting of (i) a charge recorded in Other revenue of approximately $800 million after-tax ($1.3 billion pretax), representing a loss on sale of the 14% Interest, and (ii) an 
other-than-temporary impairment of the carrying value of its remaining 35% interest in MSSB of approximately $2.1 billion after-tax ($3.4 billion pretax).As of December 31, 2012, Citi continues to account for its remaining 35% interest in MSSB under the equity method, with the carrying value capped at 
the agreed selling price of $4.725 billion.Mortgage-backed securities
For U.S. mortgage-backed securities (and in particular for Alt-A and other 
mortgage-backed securities that have significant unrealized losses as a 
percentage of amortized cost), credit impairment is assessed using a cash 
flow model that estimates the cash flows on the underlying mortgages, using 
the security-specific collateral and transaction structure. The model estimates 
cash flows from the underlying mortgage loans and distributes those cash 
flows to various tranches of securities, considering the transaction structure 
and any subordination and credit enhancements that exist in that structure. 
The cash flow model incorporates actual cash flows on the mortgage-backed 
securities through the current period and then projects the remaining cash 
flows using a number of assumptions, including default rates, prepayment 
rates and recovery rates (on foreclosed properties).Management develops specific assumptions using as much market data as possible and includes internal estimates as well as estimates published 
by rating agencies and other third-party sources. Default rates are projected 
by considering current underlying mortgage loan performance, generally 
assuming the default of (i) 10% of current loans, (ii) 25% of 30Œ59 day 
delinquent loans, (iii) 70% of 60Œ90 day delinquent loans and (4) 100% 
of 91+ day delinquent loans. These estimates are extrapolated along a 
default timing curve to estimate the total lifetime pool default rate. Other 
assumptions contemplate the actual collateral attributes, including 
geographic concentrations, rating agency loss projections, rating actions and 
current market prices.198The key assumptions for mortgage-backed securities as of December 31, 2012 
are in the table below:December 31, 2012

˙˛ˆ1%Œ8% CRR˙˜ˆ45%Œ90%˙˛ˆ˝


˙˜ˆ˝


In addition, cash flow projections are developed using more stressful parameters. Management assesses the results of those stress tests (including the severity of any cash shortfall indicated and the likelihood of the stress 
scenarios actually occurring based on the underlying pool™s characteristics 

and performance) to assess whether management expects to recover the 
amortized cost basis of the security. If cash flow projections indicate that the 

Company does not expect to recover its amortized cost basis, the Company 
recognizes the estimated credit loss in earnings.State and municipal securities
Citigroup™s AFS state and municipal bonds consist mainly of bonds that 
are financed through Tender Option Bond programs or were previously 
financed in this program. The process for identifying credit impairments for 
these bonds is largely based on third-party credit ratings. Individual bond 
positions that are financed through Tender Option Bonds are required to 
meet minimum ratings requirements, which vary based on the sector of the 
bond issuer.Citigroup monitors the bond issuer and insurer ratings on a daily basis. The average portfolio rating, ignoring any insurance, is Aa3/AA-. In the event 
of a rating downgrade, the subject bond is specifically reviewed for potential 
shortfall in contractual principal and interest. The remainder of Citigroup™s 

AFS and HTM state and municipal bonds are specifically reviewed for credit 
impairment based on instrument-specific estimates of cash flows, probability 
of default and loss given default.For impaired AFS state and municipal bonds that Citi plans to sell, or would likely be required to sell with no expectation that the fair value will 
recover prior to the expected sale date, the full impairment is recognized 
in earnings.The following table presents the total OTTI recognized in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2012:OTTI on Investments and Other Assets
Year Ended December 31, 2012
In millions of dollarsAFS (1)HTMOther AssetsTotal


‰˝˜˚˛˜
$17$365
$ Š$ 382

165
Š66


$ 16$300
$ Š$ 316 

…
˝˙˜ˆ139Š
4,5164,655
Total impairment losses recognized in earnings
$155$300
$4,516$4,971
˙˛ˆ˝
˙˜ˆ˝¢ﬂ⁄⁄Ž£

˝˝…˘

˝˝199The following is a 12-month roll-forward of the credit-related impairments recognized in earnings for AFS and HTM debt securities held as of December 31, 2012 that the Company does not intend to sell nor will likely be required to sell:Cumulative OTTI credit losses recognized in earnings
In millions of dollars˝˜˚˛˛˝
Credit impairments recognized in earnings on securities not previously impairedCredit impairments recognized in earnings on securities that have been previously impairedReductions due to credit-impaired securities sold, 
transferred or maturedDec. 31, 2012 
balanceAFS debt securities
ˇ
$Š
$Š
$(1)$291
˜ŠŠŠ2
˜ŠŠŠ2‰
ˇ
$Š
$Š
$(1)$295

4ŠŠ7ı−⁄−˝‰
ŠŠŠ676Š(5)169
14(40)116˛˚ŠŠŠ101ŠŠ53Total OTTI credit losses recognized for  
AFS debt securitiesˇ
$12
$4
$(46)$717
HTM debt securities

ˇ
$6
$15
$(1)$104
45216(66)2,413Š2(2)252
ŠŠ(16)80
˛˚ŠŠŠ10‰
ˇ
$51
$233
$(85)$2,859

11Š11’ŠŠŠŠ
39(6)397ŠŠŠ1132ŠŠ11Total OTTI credit losses recognized for 
HTM debt securitiesˇ
$57
$243
$(91)$3,391
200The Company holds investments in certain alternative investment funds 
that calculate net asset value (NAV) per share, including hedge funds, 
private equity funds, funds of funds and real estate funds. The Company™s 
investments include co-investments in funds that are managed by the Company and investments in funds that are managed by third parties. 
Investments in funds are generally classified as non-marketable equity 
securities carried at fair value.The fair values of these investments are estimated using the NAV per share 
of the Company™s ownership interest in the funds, where it is not probable 

that the Company will sell an investment at a price other than the 
NAV.
In millions of dollars at December 31, 2012
Fair  
valueUnfunded commitments
Redemption frequency 
(if currently eligible) monthly, quarterly, annuallyRedemption notice period
$1,316
$Š
Generally quarterly10Œ95 days
837342ŠŠ
22857ŠŠTotal
$2,381
(5)$399
ŠŠ˙˛ˆ˝

˝˙˜ˆ˝

˝…™

−


˝

˝
˝˝
201Citigroup loans are reported in two categoriesŠConsumer and Corporate. These categories are classified primarily according to the segment and 
subsegment that manages the loans.Consumer loans represent loans and leases managed primarily by the 
Global Consumer Banking and Local Consumer Lending businesses. The 
following table provides information by loan type:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛Consumer loans

$125,946


14,070111,4035,344Š˛$256,763



$ 54,709


36,18240,65320,001781$152,326

Total Consumer loans
$409,089

(418)Consumer loans, net of unearned income$408,671

ˆ…ˆ—

Included in the loan table above are lending products whose terms may give rise to additional credit issues. Credit cards with below-market introductory interest rates and interest-only loans are examples of such 
products. These products are closely managed using credit techniques that 
are intended to mitigate their additional inherent risk.During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company sold and/or reclassified (to held-for-sale) $4.3
 billion and $21.0 billion, respectively, of Consumer loans. The Company did not have significant purchases of Consumer loans during the years ended December 31, 2012 or 
December 31, 2011.Citigroup has established a risk management process to monitor, evaluate 
and manage the principal risks associated with its Consumer loan portfolio. 
Credit quality indicators that are actively monitored include delinquency 
status, consumer credit scores (FICO), and loan to value (LTV) ratios, each as 

discussed in more detail below.
Delinquency Status
Delinquency status is carefully monitored and considered a key indicator 
of credit quality of Consumer loans. Substantially all of the U.S. residential 
first mortgage loans use the MBA method of reporting delinquencies, which 
considers a loan delinquent if a monthly payment has not been received by 
the end of the day immediately preceding the loan™s next due date. All other 
loans use the OTS method of reporting delinquencies, which considers a 
loan delinquent if a monthly payment has not been received by the close of 
business on the loan™s next due date.As a general policy, residential first mortgages, home equity loans and 
installment loans are classified as non-accrual when loan payments are 
90 days contractually past due. Credit cards and unsecured revolving loans 
generally accrue interest until payments are 180 days past due. As a result 
of OCC guidance issued in the first quarter of 2012, home equity loans in 
regulated bank entities are classified as non-accrual if the related residential 
first mortgage is 90 days or more past due. As a result of OCC guidance 
issued in the third quarter of 2012, mortgage loans in regulated bank entities 
discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other than FHA-insured loans, are 

classified as non-accrual. Commercial market loans are placed on a cash 
(non-accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual experience and 
a forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that the 
payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal is 
90 days past due.The policy for re-aging modified U.S. Consumer loans to current status varies by product. Generally, one of the conditions to qualify for these modifications is that a minimum number of payments (typically ranging 
from one to three) be made. Upon modification, the loan is re-aged to 
current status. However, re-aging practices for certain open-ended Consumer 

loans, such as credit cards, are governed by Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines. For open-ended Consumer loans 
subject to FFIEC guidelines, one of the conditions for the loan to be re-aged 
to current status is that at least three consecutive minimum monthly 
payments, or the equivalent amount, must be received. In addition, under 
FFIEC guidelines, the number of times that such a loan can be re-aged is 
subject to limitations (generally once in 12 months and twice in five years). 
Furthermore, Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and Department of 
Veterans Affairs (VA) loans are modified under those respective agencies™ 

guidelines, and payments are not always required in order to re-age a 
modified loan to current.202The following tables provide details on Citigroup™s Consumer loan delinquency and non-accrual loans as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011:In millions of dollarsTotal  
current (1)(2)30Œ89 days  
past due (3) 90 days  
past due (3)Past due  
Government  
guaranteed (4)Total  
loans (2)Total  
non-accrual (5)90 days past due  
and accruing˝˙ˆNorth America

$75,791$3,074$3,339$6,000$88,204$4,922
$4,695
35,740642843
Š37,2251,797
Š108,8921,5821,527
Š112,001
Š1,52713,319288325
Š13,932
17987,8743219
Š7,925
21011Total
$241,616$5,618$6,053$6,000$259,287$7,108
$6,241

North America
$45,496$547$485$Š$46,528$807
$Š
4Š2Š62Š38,920970805
Š40,695
51650829,350496167
Š30,013
254Š31,263106181
Š31,550
428ŠTotal
$145,033$2,119$1,640$Š$148,792$2,007
$508
Total 
GCB and LCL$386,649$7,737$7,693$6,000$408,079$9,115
$6,749
Special Asset Pool (SAP)
5451829
Š592
81ŠTotal Citigroup
$387,194$7,755$7,722$6,000$408,671$9,196
$6,749
ˆ
ˆˆ
ˆ
ˆ

ˆ
ˆˆ
North America
ˆ
˘
ˆˆˆ…
North Americaˆ
ˆ
ˆˆˆ˜˚˛˜˘ˆ

ˆ

In millions of dollarsTotal  
current (1)(2)30Œ89 days  
past due (3) 90 days  
past due (3)Past due  
Government  
guaranteed (4)Total  
loans (2)Total  
non-accrual90 days past due  
and accruing˝˙ˆNorth America



’“’
Ÿ
Ÿ
Ÿ
Ÿ˜˜˜
Ÿ
˛˚˛†
Ÿ
˜˜˚˛€Total



North America
†““€’˜Ÿ
Ÿ
“Ÿ˜Ÿ’˜Ÿ
Ÿ
†˜’
Ÿ
˜†’Ÿ
Ÿ
€˚˛ŸTotal
Ÿ

Total 
GCB and LCL

Special Asset Pool (SAP)

Ÿ
˛˛†ŸTotal Citigroup


ˆ
ˆˆ
ˆ
ˆ

ˆ
ˆˆ

203Consumer Credit Scores (FICO)In the U.S., independent credit agencies rate an individual™s risk for 
assuming debt based on the individual™s credit history and assign every 
consumer a ﬁFICOﬂ credit score. These scores are continually updated by the 
agencies based upon an individual™s credit actions (e.g., taking out a loan or 
missed or late payments).The following table provides details on the FICO scores attributable to Citi™s U.S. Consumer loan portfolio as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 

(commercial market loans are not included in the table since they are 
business-based and FICO scores are not a primary driver in their credit 
evaluation). FICO scores are updated monthly for substantially all of the 
portfolio or, otherwise, on a quarterly basis.
FICO score distribution in U.S. portfolio
 (1)(2)December 31, 2012
In millions of dollarsLess than  
620> 620 but less  
than 660Equal to or  
greater  
than 660
$16,754$8,013$50,833
5,4393,20826,820
7,83310,30490,248
4,4142,4175,365
Total
$34,440$23,942$173,266
ˆ
ˆ
‰ˆ

FICO score distribution in U.S. portfolio
 (1)(2)ˆ˜˚˛˛
In millions of dollars“˜˚ˆ
ˆ





Total

ˆ
ˆ
‰ˆ

Loan to Value Ratios (LTV)
LTV ratios (loan balance divided by appraised value) are calculated at 
origination and updated by applying market price data.The following tables provide details on the LTV ratios attributable to Citi™s 
U.S. Consumer mortgage portfolios as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. 
LTV ratios are updated monthly using the most recent Core Logic HPI data 

available for substantially all of the portfolio applied at the Metropolitan 
Statistical Area level, if available and the state level if not. The remainder 
of the portfolio is updated in a similar manner using the Office of Federal 
Housing Enterprise Oversight indices.LTV distribution in U.S. portfolio
 (1)(2)December 31, 2012
In millions of dollarsLess than or  
equal to 80%> 80% but less  
than or equal to  
100%Greater  
than  
100%
$41,555$19,070$14,995
12,6119,52913,153
Total
$54,166$28,599$28,148
ˆ
ˆ
‰ˆ

LTV distribution in U.S. portfolio
 (1)(2)ˆ˜˚˛˛
In millions of dollarsˆ
ˆ
˛˚˚ıˆ
ˆ
˛˚˚ı


Total

ˆ
ˆ
‰ˆ

204Impaired loans are those loans about which Citigroup believes it is probable that it will not collect all amounts due according to the original 
contractual terms of the loan. Impaired Consumer loans include 
non-accrual commercial market loans, as well as smaller-balance homogeneous loans whose terms have been modified due to the borrower™s 
financial difficulties and where Citigroup has granted a concession to the 
borrower. These modifications may include interest rate reductions and/or 
principal forgiveness. Impaired Consumer loans exclude smaller-balance homogeneous loans that have not been modified and are carried on 
a non-accrual basis. In addition, impaired Consumer loans exclude substantially all loans modified pursuant to Citi™s short-term modification 
programs (i.e., for periods of 12 months or less) that were modified prior to January 1, 2011.As a result of OCC guidance issued in the third quarter of 2012, mortgage loans to borrowers that have gone through Chapter 7 bankruptcy are 
classified as TDRs. These TDRs, other than FHA-insured loans, are written 
down to collateral value less cost to sell. FHA-insured loans are reserved based 
on a discounted cash flow model (see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements). Approximately $635 million of incremental charge-offs was recorded in the third quarter as a result of this new guidance, the vast 
majority of which related to current loans, and was substantially offset 
by a related reserve release of approximately $600 million. The recorded investment in receivables reclassified to TDRs in the third quarter of 2012 
as a result of this OCC guidance approximated $1,714 million, composed of $1,327 million of residential first mortgages and $387 million of home equity loans.The following tables present information about total impaired Consumer loans at and for the years ending December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively:At and for the year ended December 31, 2012
In millions of dollarsRecorded  
investment (1)(2)Unpaid  
principal balanceRelated specific  
allowance (3)Average 
carrying value
 (4)Interest income  
recognized (5)(6)

$20,870
$22,062
$3,585
$19,956
$875
2,1352,7276361,911684,5844,6391,8005,2723081,6121,6188601,9582484397376049521Total
 (7)$29,640
$31,783
$6,941
$29,592
$1,520
ˆ
ˆˆ
ˆˆˆAllowance for loan losses˘ˆ™

ˆˆ
ˆ˘
ˆ
…Œ
˘
ˆˆ˜˚˛˜˘

ˆˆ˜˚˛˜˘
At and for the year ended December 31, 2011
In millions of dollarsRecorded  
investment (1)(2)Unpaid  
principal balanceRelated specific  
allowance (3)Average 
carrying value
 (4)Interest income  
recognized (5)(6)





’’’
ˆˆ˜˛Total
 (7)




ˆ
ˆˆ
ˆˆˆAllowance for loan losses˘ˆ™

ˆˆ
ˆ˘
ˆ
…Œ
˘
ˆˆ˜˚˛˛˘

ˆˆ˜˚˛˛˘
205The following tables present Consumer TDRs occurring during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011:At and for the year ended December 31, 2012
In millions of dollars except  number of loans modifiedNumber of  
loans modifiedPost-modification  
recorded investment (1)(2)Chapter 7 bankruptcy  
charge-offs (2)Deferred  
principal (3)Contingent  
principal  
forgiveness (4)Principal  
forgivenessAverage  
interest rate  
reductionNorth America
59,869$8,107
$154$10$7$553
1%33,5868624505Š782204,9991,053ŠŠ
ŠŠ1664,858469ŠŠ
ŠŠ617018ŠŠ
ŠŠŠTotal
363,482$10,509
$604$15$7$631
International
9,447$324
$Š$Š$Š$2
1%584ŠŠ
ŠŠŠ206,755632ŠŠ
Š12945,191280ŠŠ
Š122377171ŠŠ
12ŠTotal
261,828$1,411
$Š$Š$1$6
At and for the year ended December 31, 2011
In millions of dollars except  number of loans modifiedNumber of  
loans modifiedPost-modification  
recorded investment (1)Deferred  
principal (3)Contingent  
principal  
forgiveness (4)Principal  
forgivenessAverage  
interest rate  
reductionNorth America
““
†˚Ÿ
˜ı
˛Ÿ€Ÿ
ŸŸŸ
ŸŸ€††Ÿ
Ÿ˛ŸTotal

†˛˛
International
Ÿ
Ÿ†
˛ı“˛€Ÿ
ŸŸŸ“˜’Ÿ
Ÿ˜˜€†€†Ÿ
Ÿ’˛˜††Ÿ
Ÿ˛ŸTotal
Ÿ
Ÿ˛“
ˆ

ˆ
North Americaˆˆ˘ˆ
ˆˆ

ˆ
˘
ˆ
ˆ

ˆ

206The following table presents Consumer TDRs that defaulted during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and for which the payment 
default occurred within one year of the modification:In millions of dollarsYear ended 
December 31, 2012
 (1)¢
ˆ˜˚˛˛
North America
$1,145

128434121ŠTotal
$1,828

International
$ 64

1˜2091175˛€Total
$396

ˆ
ˆ

Corporate loans represent loans and leases managed by the Institutional 

Clients Group or the Special Asset Pool in Citi Holdings. The following table 

presents information by Corporate loan type as of December 31, 2012 and 2011:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
2012ˆ
˜˚˛˛Corporate
ˆ$26,985

18,159
24,705
32,4461,410$103,705


$82,939


14,958
6,48537,739605†“’
1,159$143,885

Total Corporate loans
$247,590

(797)Corporate loans, net of unearned income$246,793

ˆ…ˆ—

For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company sold and/or reclassified (to held-for-sale) $4.4
 billion and $6.4 billion, respectively, of held-for-investment Corporate loans. The Company 
did not have significant purchases of Corporate loans classified as held-for-investment for the year ended December 31, 2012 or December 31, 2011.207Corporate loans are identified as impaired and placed on a cash (non-accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual experience and a forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that the payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal 
is 90 days past due, except when the loan is well collateralized and in the process of collection. Any interest accrued on impaired Corporate loans 
and leases is reversed at 90 days and charged against current earnings, and interest is thereafter included in earnings only to the extent actually 
received in cash. When there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability 
of principal, all cash receipts are thereafter applied to reduce the recorded 
investment in the loan. While Corporate loans are generally managed based 
on their internally assigned risk rating (see further discussion below), the 
following tables present delinquency information by Corporate loan type as of 
December 31, 2012 and 2011:In millions of dollars30Œ89 days  
past due  
and accruing (1)> 90 days  
past due and  
accruing (1)Total past due  
and accruingTotal  
non-accrual (2)Total  
current (3)Total  
loans$38
$10
$48
$1,078$107,650$108,776
5Š545453,85854,317

22410933368030,05731,070
7Š7521,9562,015
706766946,41446,559

 4,056Total
$344$125
$469
$2,333$239,935$246,793
ˆ
ˆ


ˆ

In millions of dollars30Œ89 days past due and accruing (1)> 90 days past due and accruing (1)Total past due 
and accruingTotal 
non-accrual (2)Total 
current (3)Total 
loans



Ÿ˜˜

˜˜€˛˜†
˛˛˛€
˜˜†˛†˜€˚

ˆTotal
†€†


ˆ
ˆ



ˆ

208Citigroup has a risk management process to monitor, evaluate and 
manage the principal risks associated with its Corporate loan portfolio. As part of its risk management process, Citi assigns numeric risk ratings to its 
Corporate loan facilities based on quantitative and qualitative assessments 
of the obligor and facility. These risk ratings are reviewed at least annually 

or more often if material events related to the obligor or facility warrant. 
Factors considered in assigning the risk ratings include: financial condition 
of the obligor, qualitative assessment of management and strategy, amount 

and sources of repayment, amount and type of collateral and guarantee 
arrangements, amount and type of any contingencies associated with the 
obligor, and the obligor™s industry and geography.
The obligor risk ratings are defined by ranges of default probabilities. The facility risk ratings are defined by ranges of loss norms, which are the product 
of the probability of default and the loss given default. The investment grade 
rating categories are similar to the category BBB-/Baa3 and above as defined 
by S&P and Moody™s. Loans classified according to the bank regulatory 

definitions as special mention, substandard and doubtful will have risk 
ratings within the non-investment grade categories.
Recorded investment in loans (1)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
2012ˆ
˜˚˛˛Investment grade (2)$73,822

43,895
12,5871,40442,575Total investment grade
$174,283

Non-investment grade (2)$33,876

9,968
2,858559““€3,9151,078454
6805269Total non-investment grade
$53,509

Private Banking loans managed on a 
delinquency basis
 (2)$14,945

Loans at fair value
4,056Corporate loans, net of unearned income$246,793

ˆ


ˆ

Corporate loans and leases identified as impaired and placed on non-accrual status are written down to the extent that principal is judged to be uncollectible. Impaired collateral-dependent loans and leases, where 
repayment is expected to be provided solely by the sale of the underlying 
collateral and there are no other available and reliable sources of repayment, 
are written down to the lower of cost or collateral value, less cost to sell. 
Cash-basis loans are returned to an accrual status when all contractual 
principal and interest amounts are reasonably assured of repayment and 
there is a sustained period of repayment performance, generally six months, 
in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan.209The following tables present non-accrual loan information by Corporate loan type at and for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively:At and for the period ended December 31, 2012
In millions of dollarsRecorded  
investment (1)Unpaid  
principal balanceRelated specific  
allowanceAverage  
carrying value
 (2)Interest income  
recognized
$1,078
$1,368
$155$1,076
$65
45450414518Š
680810748112352611619269245251548Total non-accrual Corporate loans
$2,333
$2,988
$284$2,578
$98
ˆ˜˚˛˛
In millions of dollars
™




˛’“

˜’Ÿ
˛†˛˛€˜˛Ÿ˜†˜“€˚††€˜˚ﬁ


€˜˚

At and for the period endedIn millions of dollarsˆ
˜˚˛˚™
“†December 31, 2012
ˆ˜˚˛˛
In millions of dollarsRecorded investment (1)Related specific allowance

$608
$155
†˚˛
˛’“
4114˜’
34574†€˚˛†˛4716ŸŸ5925˛˜˚††Total non-accrual Corporate loans with specific allowance
$1,100
$284

€˜˚

$470

413“’†
3355 ˆ10Total non-accrual Corporate loans without specific allowance
$1,233N/A
•¡™ˆ

ˆ™

ˆ™

•¡™ˆ
210The following tables provide details on Corporate TDR activity and default information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011.
The following table presents Corporate TDRs occurring during the year ended December 31, 2012.In millions of dollarsCarrying 
Value
TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of principal payments (1)TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of interest payments (2)TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of both principal and interest paymentsBalance of principal forgiven or deferredNet P&L impact (3)$99
$84
$4
$11
$Š$1
ŠŠŠŠŠŠ

11360Š53ŠŠ
ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Total
$212
$144
$4
$64
$Š$1
ˆ

ˆ

ˆ

The following table presents Corporate TDRs occurring during the year ended December 31, 2011.In millions of dollarsCarrying 
Value
TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of principal payments (1)TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of interest payments (2)TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of both principal and interest paymentsBalance of principal forgiven or deferredNet P&L impact (3)˛˜“
Ÿ
˛“
˛˛˚
Ÿ˛“
ŸŸŸŸŸŸ

˜†˚˜˚€
ŸŸŸ
ﬁ
€†˚



€
ˆ

ˆ

ˆ

The following table presents total Corporate loans modified in a TDR at December 31, 2012 and 2011, as well as those TDRs that defaulted during 2012 and 2011, and for which the payment default occurred within one year of the modification:In millions of dollarsTDR Balances at December 31, 2012
TDRs  
in payment default 
during the year Ended December 31, 2012
TDR Balances at December 31, 2011
TDRs  
in payment default 
during the year Ended December 31, 2011
$275
$94


17Š†“€Ÿ
131Š˜†’Ÿ450Š’†ŸTotal
$873
$94


ˆ
211Included in the Corporate and Consumer loan outstanding tables above are purchased distressed loans, which are loans that have evidenced significant 
credit deterioration subsequent to origination but prior to acquisition by 
Citigroup. In accordance with SOP 03-3 (codified as ASC 310-30), the 
difference between the total expected cash flows for these loans and the 
initial recorded investment is recognized in income over the life of the 
loans using a level yield. Accordingly, these loans have been excluded from 
the impaired loan table information presented above. In addition, per 
SOP 03-3, subsequent decreases in the expected cash flows for a purchased distressed loan require a build of an allowance so the loan retains its level 
yield. However, increases in the expected cash flows are first recognized as 
a reduction of any previously established allowance and then recognized as 
income prospectively over the remaining life of the loan by increasing the 
loan™s level yield. Where the expected cash flows cannot be reliably estimated, 
the purchased distressed loan is accounted for under the cost recovery 
method. The carrying amount of the Company™s purchased distressed loan 
portfolio at December 31, 2012 was $440 million, net of an allowance of $98 million.The changes in the accretable yield, related allowance and carrying amount net of accretable yield for 2012 are as follows:In millions of dollarsAccretable yieldCarrying 
amount of loan receivableAllowance
ˆ˜˚˛˛
˜
†˛˛“’
˛†Ÿ
ŸŸŸŸ€˛
†˛ŸBalance at December 31, 2012
 (2)$22
$538$98
ˆ

ˆˆˆ
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ

ˆˆ
212In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Allowance for loan losses at beginning of year$30,115
˝˙˚ˆˇ˘˘˝
(17,478)
2,902
Net credit losses (NCLs)$(14,576)
˝˝
$14,576
˝˝

(1,882)

(1,846)
Total provision for credit losses
$10,848
˝˝
ˆ
(932)
Allowance for loan losses at end of year$25,455
˝˝˙˚ˆˇ˘˘
Allowance for credit losses on unfunded lending commitments at beginning of year (4)$1,136
˝˛ˆ˚ˇˇ˝˛ˆ˛˘“

(16)˘˛
ˆ
(1)˜ˇ
Allowance for credit losses on unfunded lending commitments at end of year (4)$1,119
˝˝˛ˆ˚ˇˇ
Total allowance for loans, leases, and unfunded lending commitments
$26,574
˝˝˙˛ˆ“˜˛


⁄‹›‹


†










Other liabilities

In millions of dollarsCorporateConsumerTotal

$2,879$27,236$30,115

(640)(16,838)(17,478)
4172,4852,902

22314,35314,576

2(1,884)(1,882)

(138)(1,708)(1,846)
33(965)(932)
Ending balance$2,776$22,679$25,455

  
$2,429$15,703$18,132

2846,9417,225

633598
Total allowance for loan losses
$2,776$22,679$25,455


$239,849$377,374$617,223

2,77629,64032,416

112426538

4,0561,2315,287
Total loans, net of unearned income
$246,793$408,671$655,464
213In millions of dollarsCorporateConsumerTotal

˝˝˝˙˚ˆˇ˘˘


˜ˆ“˙˚

˛ˆˇ˛˙





Ending balance˝˝˝


˝˝˝˜˚ˆ“˙˜

˙˜˚

˘˛˛“
Total allowance for loan losses
˝˝˝


˝˝˝



˘˛˛

˘ˆ˜ˇ˘
Total loans, net of unearned income
˝˝˝ˇ˙“ˆ˜˙˜
214The changes in Goodwill during 2012 and 2011 were as follows:In millions of dollars

˝˜ˇˆ˛˘˜

˙˙

˝

294
(21)
(13)Balance at December 31, 2012$25,673
The changes in Goodwill by segment during 2012 and 2011 were as follows:In millions of dollarsGlobal  
Consumer BankingInstitutional Clients GroupCiti Holdings
Corporate/OtherTotal

˝˛˚ˆ“˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˜˘˝ł˝˜ˇˆ˛˘˜
˝ł˝˝ł˝ł˝
łł

ł

˝˝˝˙ˆ˙˙˚˝ł˝
$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š
ŠŠ(8)Š(8)
202444Š268
4,283Š(4,283)ŠŠ
Balance at December 31, 2012$14,539$10,981$153$Š$25,673
Goodwill

Citi HoldingsŠLocal Consumer Lending  CiticorpŠNorth America Regional Consumer Banking
‹
Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the level below the business segments (referred to as a reporting unit). The reporting unit structure in 2012 was the same as the reporting unit structure in 2011, although certain 
underlying businesses were transferred between certain reporting units in the 
first quarter of 2012, as discussed further below.
As of January 1, 2012, a substantial majority of the Citi retail services 
business previously included within the Local Consumer LendingŠCards
 reporting unit was transferred to North AmericaŠRegional Consumer 

Banking. In addition, certain small businesses included within the Local 
Consumer LendingŠCards
 reporting unit were transferred to Local 

Consumer LendingŠOther. Additionally, an insurance business in El 

Salvador within Brokerage and Asset Management was transferred to 

Latin America Regional Consumer Banking. Goodwill affected by the 
reorganization was reassigned from Local Consumer LendingŠCards 
and Brokerage and Asset Management to those reporting units that received 

businesses using a relative fair value approach. Subsequent to January 1, 2012, 
goodwill has been allocated to disposals and tested for impairment under 

the reporting unit structure reflecting these transfers. An interim goodwill 

impairment test was performed on the impacted reporting units as of January 1, 

2012, resulting in no impairment.The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test as of July 1, 2012 resulting in no impairment for any of the reporting units.As per ASC 350, IntangiblesŠGoodwill and Other management elected to perform a qualitative assessment for the Transaction Services
 reporting 
unit. Through consideration of various factors including excess of fair value 
over the carrying value in prior year, projected growth via positive cash flows, 

and no adverse changes anticipated in the business and macroeconomic 
environment, management determined that it is not more-likely-than-not 
that the fair value of this reporting unit is less than its carrying amount and 
therefore the two-step impairment test was not required.No goodwill was deemed impaired in 2010, 2011 and 2012.215The following table shows reporting units with goodwill balances as of December 31, 2012 and the excess of fair value as a percentage over allocated book value as of the annual impairment test.In millions of dollarsReporting unit (1)Fair value as a % of  
allocated book valueGoodwill
North America Regional Consumer Banking
225%$6,803
EMEA Regional Consumer Banking
150%$366
Asia Regional Consumer Banking
281%$5,489
Latin America Regional Consumer Banking
186%$1,881
Securities and Banking137%$9,378
Transaction Services
1,336% (2)$1,603
Brokerage and Asset Management
121%$42
Local Consumer LendingŠCards110%$111
Local Consumer LendingŠOther
Transaction Ser
vices:

Citigroup engaged an independent valuation specialist in 2011 and 2012 to assist in Citi™s valuation for most of the reporting units employing 

both the market approach and the discounted cash flow (DCF) method. Citi 
believes that the DCF method, using management projections for the selected 
reporting units and an appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, is the most 
reflective of a market participant™s view of fair values given current market 

conditions. For the reporting units where both methods were utilized in 2011 
and 2012, the resulting fair values were relatively consistent and appropriate 
weighting was given to outputs from both methods.While no impairment was noted in step one of the Local Consumer LendingŠCards
 reporting unit impairment test as of July 1, 2012, goodwill 
present in the reporting unit may be particularly sensitive to further 
deterioration in economic conditions.Under the market approach for valuing this reporting unit, the key assumption is the price multiple. The selection of the multiple considers 
operating performance and financial condition such as return on equity and 
net income growth of Local Consumer LendingŠCards
 as compared to 
those of selected guideline companies. Among other factors, the level and 
expected growth in return on tangible equity relative to those of the guideline 
companies is considered. Since the guideline company prices used are on a 
minority interest basis, the selection of the multiple considers the guideline 
acquisition prices which reflect control rights and privileges in arriving at a 
multiple that reflects an appropriate control premium.For the Local Consumer LendingŠCards
 valuation under the income approach, the assumptions used as the basis for the model include cash flows 
for the forecasted period, assumptions embedded in arriving at an estimation 
of the terminal year value and discount rate. The cash flows are estimated 
based on management™s most recent projections available as of the testing 

date, giving consideration to target equity capital requirements based on 
selected guideline companies for the reporting unit. In arriving at a terminal 
value for Local Consumer LendingŠCards
, using 2015 as the terminal 
year, the assumptions used included a long-term growth rate. The discount 

rate used in the analysis is based on the reporting units™ estimated cost of 
equity capital computed under the capital asset pricing model.If the future were to differ adversely from management™s best estimate of 
key economic assumptions and associated cash flows were to decrease by a 
small margin, the Company could potentially experience future impairment 
charges with respect to the $111 million goodwill remaining in its Local 
Consumer LendingŠCards
 reporting unit. Any such charge, by itself, 
would not negatively affect the Company™s regulatory capital ratios, tangible 

common equity or liquidity position.216The components of intangible assets were as follows:December 31, 2012
In millions of dollarsGross carrying 
amountAccumulated amortizationNet carrying 
amount




$7,632$5,726$1,906
˝“ˆˇ˛ˇ˝˝

1,3151,019296


767380387
˙“˙
239135104
˛˛˜

487Š487
ł
4,7642,2472,517

Intangible assets (excluding MSRs)
$15,204$9,507$5,697
˝˝˝ˇˆˇ˚˚

1,942Š1,942
ł
Total intangible assets
$17,146$9,507$7,639
˝˝˝

Intangible assets amortization expense was $856 million, $898 million and $976 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Intangible assets 
amortization expense is estimated to be $812 million in 2013, $723 million 
in 2014, $689 million in 2015, $766 million in 2016, and $550 million 
in 2017.The changes in intangible assets during 2012 were as follows:In millions of dollars

˜˚˛˛Acquisitions/ divestituresAmortizationImpairments
FX and other (1)Discontinued operationsNet carrying 
amount at December 31, 2012
˝
$Š$(402)$Š$1$ Š$1,906

Š(84)Š8
Š296
˙“˙Š(45)Š(42)
Š387˛˛˜Š(9)Š1
Š104
(8)ŠŠ3
Š4872(316)
(6)13
(19)2,517
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs)
˝ˇˆˇ˚˚
$(6)$(856)$(6)$(16)$(19)$5,697

1,942Total intangible assets
˝
$7,639



217Short-term borrowings consist of commercial paper and other borrowings with weighted average interest rates at December 31 as follows:2012˜˚˛˛In millions of dollarsBalanceWeighted 
average

Commercial paper$11,0920.59%
˝
3780.84
ˇˆ˙˛˙
$11,470
˝
Other borrowings (1)40,5571.06%

Total
$52,027
˝˘˙ˆ˙˙˛


…‹
Borrowings under bank lines of credit may be at interest rates based on LIBOR, CD rates, the prime rate, or bids submitted by the banks. Citigroup pays commitment fees for its lines of credit.Some of Citigroup™s non-bank subsidiaries have credit facilities with 
Citigroup™s subsidiary depository institutions, including Citibank, N.A. 

Borrowings under these facilities are secured in accordance with Section 23A 
of the Federal Reserve Act.Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc. (CGMHI) has borrowing agreements consisting of facilities that CGMHI has been advised are 
available, but where no contractual lending obligation exists. These 
arrangements are reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure flexibility in 
meeting CGMHI™s short-term requirements.
Balances at December 31,In millions of dollarsWeighted 
average couponMaturities2012
˜˚˛˛Citigroup4.29%2013Œ2098$138,862
˝

4.402013Œ203627,581


7.142031Œ206710,110
˛ˇˆ˚˘“Bank (2)1.912013Œ203950,527

3.292013Œ2039707
Non-bank3.642013Œ209711,651

2.262013Œ201725
Total 
(3)$239,463
˝
$201,040
˝˜““ˆ˜˛ˇ

28,313

10,110˛ˇˆ˚˘“Total
$239,463
˝



ˆ







…‹

„


„



„„



„„
CGMHI has committed long-term financing facilities with unaffiliated banks. At December 31, 2012, CGMHI had drawn down $300 million 
available under these facilities. Generally, a bank can terminate these 

facilities by giving CGMHI one-year prior notice.The Company issues both fixed and variable rate debt in a range of currencies. It uses derivative contracts, primarily interest rate swaps, to 
effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate debt to variable rate debt and 
variable rate debt to fixed rate debt. The maturity structure of the derivatives 
generally corresponds to the maturity structure of the debt being hedged. 
In addition, the Company uses other derivative contracts to manage 
the foreign exchange impact of certain debt issuances. At December 31, 
2012, the Company™s overall weighted average interest rate for long-term 

debt was 3.88% on a contractual basis and 2.71% including the effects of 
derivative contracts.218Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt obligations (based on final maturity dates) including trust preferred securities are as follows:In millions of dollars20132014201520162017ThereafterTotal
˝˛ˇˆˇ˚˛˝˝˝˝˝˝
˘˜˛˛ˆˇ“ˇ
…
˜˙ˆ˙ˇ˙˜˛ˆ˛˘ˇ“˙ˆ˜“ˇ
Total
˝˙˜ˆˇ˘˛˝˝˝˝˜˙ˆ˛˘˛˝˝
Long-term debt outstanding includes trust preferred securities with a balance sheet carrying value of $10,110 million and $16,057 million at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. In issuing these 

trust preferred securities, Citi formed statutory business trusts under the 
laws of the State of Delaware. The trusts exist for the exclusive purposes 
of (i) issuing trust preferred securities representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the trust; (ii) investing the gross proceeds of the trust 
preferred securities in junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures 
(subordinated debentures) of its parent; and (iii) engaging in only those 
activities necessary or incidental thereto. Generally, upon receipt of certain regulatory approvals, Citigroup has the right to redeem these securities.As previously disclosed, during the third quarter of 2012, Citi redeemed three series of its trust preferred securities resulting in a pretax gain of 
$198 million. The redemptions under Citigroup Capital XII and XXI closed on July 18, 2012, while Citigroup Capital XIX closed on August 15, 2012. 
During the fourth quarter of 2012, Citigroup completed the early redemption 
of Citigroup Capital XX in the amount of $0.4 billion. The gain recorded 
upon the redemption was $7 million. The redemption under Citigroup 
Capital XX closed on December 17, 2012.The following table summarizes the financial structure of each of the Company™s subsidiary trusts at December 31, 2012:Junior subordinated debentures owned by trustTrust securities 

with distributions 
guaranteed by 
CitigroupIssuance dateSecurities issuedLiquidation value
 (1)Coupon rateCommon shares issued to parentAmountMaturity
Redeemable by issuer beginningIn millions of dollars, except share amounts

˝“‹ˇ˜˘¡˝˜˚˚
¥œœ
“‹˛˜˘¡
¥œœœ
˛ˆ˛˜˘

ˇ‹˚˚˚¡˛ˆ˚˙“ˆˇ“˘

ˇ‹˛˚˚¡

˙ˇ˚ˇ‹˚˚˚¡˙“˙

˜ˆ˜˙ˇ˛ˆ˚˚˚˜ˆ˜˙ˇ

˙˚ˆ˚˚˚

ˇ‹˘˚˚¡˙˚ˆ˚˚˚

‹ˇ‹˙˘˚¡˜˚ˆ˚˚˚

‹“˚˛˜˚ˆ˚˚˚“˚˜‹‹

˛ˇ˜˘˚˛ˇ˜

˛˚˚
„
˛“ˆ˘˚˚

˘˙˜

„
˜˘ˆ˚˚˚
˜˘
““˙
˜ˇ
„
˙˚ˆ˚˚˚
˙˚

˙˛
„¥
‹


‹‹
Total obligated
$12,000
$12,125




In each case, the coupon rate on the debentures is the same as that on the trust securities. Distributions on the trust securities and interest on 
the debentures are payable quarterly, except for Citigroup Capital III and 

Citigroup Capital XVIII on which distributions are payable semiannually.
219
Citigroup is subject to risk-based capital and leverage guidelines issued by the Federal Reserve System (FRB). Citi™s U.S. insured depository institution 
subsidiaries, including Citibank, N.A., are subject to similar guidelines issued 
by their respective primary federal bank regulatory agencies. These guidelines 
are used to evaluate capital adequacy and include the required minimums 
shown in the following table. The regulatory agencies are required by law 
to take specific prompt actions with respect to institutions that do not meet 
minimum capital standards.The following table sets forth Citigroup™s and Citibank, N.A.™s regulatory 
capital ratios as of December 31, 2012:In millions of dollarsRequired  
minimumWell- 
capitalized minimum CitigroupCitibank, N.A.
„
$123,095$116,633
„
136,532117,367
„
167,686135,513
„
N/AN/A12.67%14.12
¡„
4.0%6.0%14.0614.21
„
8.010.017.2616.41

3.05.0
 (2)7.488.97„„„



As indicated in the table above, Citigroup and Citibank, N.A. were well capitalized under the current federal bank regulatory definitions as of 
December 31, 2012.There are various legal limitations on the ability of Citigroup™s subsidiary 
depository institutions to extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply 
funds to Citigroup and its non-bank subsidiaries. The approval of the Office 
of the Comptroller of the Currency is required if total dividends declared 
in any calendar year exceed amounts specified by the applicable agency™s 
regulations. State-chartered depository institutions are subject to dividend 
limitations imposed by applicable state law.In determining the dividends, each depository institution must also consider its effect on applicable risk-based capital and leverage ratio 
requirements, as well as policy statements of the federal regulatory agencies 
that indicate that banking organizations should generally pay dividends out 
of current operating earnings. Citigroup received $19.1 billion in dividends 
from Citibank, N.A. in 2012.Citigroup also receives dividends from its non-bank subsidiaries. These 
non-bank subsidiaries are generally not subject to regulatory restrictions 
on dividends.The ability of CGMHI to declare dividends can be restricted by capital considerations of its broker-dealer subsidiaries.In millions of dollarsSubsidiary
JurisdictionNet capital or equivalent
Excess over 
minimum requirement⁄‹›‹




˝ˇˆ˜˘˚




˝ˇˆ˜˛˜
220Years Ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Revenues$3,384
˝˝
6,573
Net interest revenue$(3,189)
˝˝
Dividends from subsidiaries20,780
Non-interest revenue613Total revenues, net of interest expense
$18,204
˝˛˚ˆ˚˘˛˝
Total operating expenses
$1,497
˝˝
Income before taxes and equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries$16,707
˝˝

(2,062)
(11,228)
Parent company™s net income
$7,541
˝˛˛ˆ˚ˇ“˝˛˚ˆˇ˚˜
Comprehensive income
…ﬂ
$7,541
˝˛˛ˆ˚ˇ“˝˛˚ˆˇ˚˜
892˜ˆˇˇ˚
…ﬂ
$8,433
˝˝
Years Ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛Assets$ 153 
˝
„
150 1,676 107,074 184,615 102,335 Total assets$396,003 
˝
Liabilities

$ 185 
˝
„
170 725 176,553 12,759 
16,562 Total liabilities
$206,954 
˝
Total equity
189,049 Total liabilities and equity
$396,003 
˝
221Years Ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations
$1,598
˝˛ˆ“˛˚˝
Cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations$(5,701)
˝˝
37,056

4,286
…
(397)
994
Net cash provided by investing activities of continuing operations
$36,238
˝˝
Cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations
$(143)
˝˝
2,250łł
ˆ
(33,434)
…
(6,160)
(199)
Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations$(37,686)
˝˝
Net increase (decrease) in cash and due from banks$150
˝˝ˇ
Cash and due from banks at beginning of period3˛˛˘
Cash and due from banks at end of period$153
˝˝˛˛
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for continuing operations


$78
˝˝
7,883
…¨
ˆ

…‹
222Changes in each component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the three-year period ended December 31, 2012 are as follows:In millions of dollarsNet unrealized gains (losses)  
on investment  
securitiesForeign  
currency  
translation  
adjustment,  
net of  
hedgesCash flow hedgesPension  
liability adjustmentsAccumulated  
other  
comprehensive income (loss)˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ˚
ˇ


˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ˚
ˇ


˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ˚
ˇ


Balance at December 31, 2012$597$(9,930)$(2,293)$(5,270)$(16,896)
ˇ‡–
˘ˆ€ˇƒ’˝˚˝˙’˚˛
ˇ›˘˚ˇ
ˇ„˚
ˇ“

ˇ„˚
ˇˇ

ˇ˛’˚ˇ
‡⁄
ˇˇ
‡⁄
‡⁄
ˇ

˘ˆ€ˇƒ’˝˚˝˙’˚˛
ˇ›˘˚The pretax and after-tax changes in each component of 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the three-year period ended December 31, 2012 are as follows:In millions of dollarsPretaxTax effectAfter-tax

ˇ















Change
Balance, December 31, 2012
$(25,334)$8,438$(16,896)
223A special purpose entity (SPE) is an entity designed to fulfill a specific limited need of the company that organized it. The principal uses of SPEs are to 
obtain liquidity and favorable capital treatment by securitizing certain of 
Citigroup™s financial assets, to assist clients in securitizing their financial 
assets and to create investment products for clients. SPEs may be organized 
in various legal forms including trusts, partnerships or corporations. In a 
securitization, the company transferring assets to an SPE converts all (or a 
portion) of those assets into cash before they would have been realized in 
the normal course of business through the SPE™s issuance of debt and equity 
instruments, certificates, commercial paper and other notes of indebtedness, 
which are recorded on the balance sheet of the SPE, which may or may 
not be consolidated onto the balance sheet of the company that organized 
the SPE.Investors usually only have recourse to the assets in the SPE and often benefit from other credit enhancements, such as a collateral account or 
over-collateralization in the form of excess assets in the SPE, a line of credit, or from a liquidity facility, such as a liquidity put option or asset 

purchase agreement. Because of these enhancements, the SPE issuances can 
typically obtain a more favorable credit rating from rating agencies than the 
transferor could obtain for its own debt issuances, resulting in less expensive 
financing costs than unsecured debt. The SPE may also enter into derivative 
contracts in order to convert the yield or currency of the underlying assets 
to match the needs of the SPE investors or to limit or change the credit risk 
of the SPE. Citigroup may be the provider of certain credit enhancements as 
well as the counterparty to any related derivative contracts.Most of Citigroup™s SPEs are variable interest entities (VIEs), as described below.Variable Interest Entities
VIEs are entities that have either a total equity investment that is insufficient 
to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated 
financial support, or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a 
controlling financial interest (i.e., ability to make significant decisions 
through voting rights, and right to receive the expected residual returns of 
the entity or obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity). Investors 
that finance the VIE through debt or equity interests or other counterparties 
that provide other forms of support, such as guarantees, subordinated fee 
arrangements, or certain types of derivative contracts, are variable interest 
holders in the entity.The variable interest holder, if any, that has a controlling financial interest 
in a VIE is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and must consolidate the 
VIE. Citigroup would be deemed to have a controlling financial interest and 
be the primary beneficiary if it has both of the following characteristics:power to direct activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the 
entity™s economic performance; andobligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be 
significant to the VIE or right to receive benefits from the entity that could 
potentially be significant to the VIE.The Company must evaluate its involvement in each VIE and understand the purpose and design of the entity, the role the Company had in the entity™s 
design and its involvement in the VIE™s ongoing activities. The Company 

then must evaluate which activities most significantly impact the economic 
performance of the VIE and who has the power to direct such activities.For those VIEs where the Company determines that it has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE™s economic performance, the Company then must evaluate its economic interests, if any, 

and determine whether it could absorb losses or receive benefits that could 
potentially be significant to the VIE. When evaluating whether the Company 
has an obligation to absorb losses that could potentially be significant, it 
considers the maximum exposure to such loss without consideration of 
probability. Such obligations could be in various forms, including, but not 

limited to, debt and equity investments, guarantees, liquidity agreements, 
and certain derivative contracts.In various other transactions, the Company may: (i) act as a derivative counterparty (for example, interest rate swap, cross-currency swap, or 
purchaser of credit protection under a credit default swap or total return 
swap where the Company pays the total return on certain assets to the SPE); 
(ii) act as underwriter or placement agent; (iii) provide administrative, trustee or other services; or (iv) make a market in debt securities or other 
instruments issued by VIEs. The Company generally considers such 
involvement, by itself, not to be variable interests and thus not an indicator of 
power or potentially significant benefits or losses.224Citigroup™s involvement with consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs with which the Company holds significant variable interests or has continuing 
involvement through servicing a majority of the assets in a VIE as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 is presented below:In millions of dollarsAs of December 31, 2012
Maximum exposure to loss in significant  
unconsolidated VIEs(1)Funded exposures
(2)Unfunded exposures
(3)CiticorpTotal 
involvement with SPE assetsConsolidated VIE / SPE assetsSignificant unconsolidated VIE assets(4)Debt investmentsEquity investmentsFunding commitmentsGuarantees and derivativesTotal

$79,109$79,109$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š

‚–›–ˇ˚
232,741Š232,7413,042
ŠŠ453,087

9,3081,6867,622382
ŠŠŠ382

30,00222,387
7,615ŠŠ7,615Š7,615

ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ

5,539Š5,53924ŠŠŠ24

15,120Š15,120642
19ŠŠ661
41,3991,12540,27414,798
842,08115917,122
15,1637,5737,590352
Š4,628Š4,980
19,69325519,4382,0033,0491,669Š6,721

2,4861512,335319
ŠŠŠ319
4,2862,1962,090Š14ŠŠ14
“
12,221Š12,221
Š126
ŠŠ126
2,0231151,908113382
2276593
Total
$469,090$114,597$354,493$21,675$3,674$16,015$280$41,644
Citi Holdings
$838$397$441$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š

‚–›–ˇ˚
106,888Š106,888700
ŠŠ163863

16,6931,62815,065
43ŠŠ245

1,6811,681ŠŠŠŠŠŠ

4,752Š4,752139
ŠŠ124263

4,676Š4,676435
Š13108556
4,16634,163984
6243Š1,233
7,766Š7,76690235
992Š1,317

1313ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
1,083Š1,083Š47ŠŠ47
6,0055,851154Š3ŠŠ3
Total
$154,561$9,573$144,988$2,391$291$1,248$397$4,327
Total Citigroup
$623,651$124,170$499,481$24,066$3,965$17,263$677$45,971
ˇ
ˇ˘˚ˇ
˘ˆ€ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆ
ˇˇ
˘ˆ€ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆ
ˇˇ˘ˆ€ˇ

ˇˇ
˘ˆ‘˛˚ˇ˘ˆ€–ˇ›ˆˆˇ
ˇ225In millions of dollarsAs of December 31, 2011
Maximum exposure to loss in significant  
unconsolidated VIEs (1)Funded exposures
 (2)Unfunded exposures
 (3)Total 
involvement with SPE assetsConsolidated VIE / SPE assetsSignificant unconsolidated VIE assets (4)Debt investmentsEquity investmentsFunding commitmentsGuarantees and derivativesTotal

¢¢
¢
¢
¢¢
¢¢¢
¢¢¢ˇ¢¢¢
ˇ¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢
ˇ¢¢
¢
¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢





¢
¢
¢
¢¢
¢¢¢
¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢
¢
¢¢
¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢









ˇ
ˇ˘˚ˇ
˘ˆ€ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆ
ˇˇ
˘ˆ€ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆ
ˇˇ˘ˆ€ˇ

ˇˇ
˘ˆ‘˛˚ˇ˘ˆ€–ˇ›ˆˆˇ
ˇ
ˇ226The previous tables do not include:certain venture capital investments made by some of the Company™s private equity subsidiaries, as the Company accounts for these investments 
in accordance with the Investment Company Audit Guide;certain limited partnerships that are investment funds that qualify for 
the deferral from the requirements of ASC 810 where the Company is the 
general partner and the limited partners have the right to replace the 
general partner or liquidate the funds;certain investment funds for which the Company provides investment 
management services and personal estate trusts for which the Company 
provides administrative, trustee and/or investment management services;VIEs structured by third parties where the Company holds securities in 
inventory, as these investments are made on arm™s-length terms;certain positions in mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities 
held by the Company, which are classified as Trading account assets or Investments, where the Company has no other involvement with 
the related securitization entity deemed to be significant (for more 
information on these positions, see Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements);certain representations and warranties exposures in legacy Securities and BankingŠsponsored mortgage-backed and asset-backed securitizations, where the Company has no variable interest or continuing involvement 
as servicer. The outstanding balance of mortgage loans securitized during 
2005 to 2008 where the Company has no variable interest or continuing 
involvement as servicer was approximately $19 billion at December 31, 
2012; andcertain representations and warranties exposures in Citigroup residential 
mortgage securitizations, where the original mortgage loan balances are 
no longer outstanding.The asset balances for consolidated VIEs represent the carrying amounts of the assets consolidated by the Company. The carrying amount may represent the amortized cost or the current fair value of the assets depending 
on the legal form of the asset (e.g., security or loan) and the Company™s 

standard accounting policies for the asset type and line of business.The asset balances for unconsolidated VIEs where the Company has significant involvement represent the most current information available 
to the Company. In most cases, the asset balances represent an amortized cost basis without regard to impairments in fair value, unless fair value 
information is readily available to the Company. For VIEs that obtain 

asset exposures synthetically through derivative instruments (for example, 
synthetic CDOs), the tables generally include the full original notional 
amount of the derivative as an asset balance.The maximum funded exposure represents the balance sheet carrying amount of the Company™s investment in the VIE. It reflects the initial amount of cash invested in the VIE adjusted for any accrued interest and 
cash principal payments received. The carrying amount may also be 
adjusted for increases or declines in fair value or any impairment in value 
recognized in earnings. The maximum exposure of unfunded positions 
represents the remaining undrawn committed amount, including liquidity 
and credit facilities provided by the Company, or the notional amount 

of a derivative instrument considered to be a variable interest. In certain 
transactions, the Company has entered into derivative instruments or other 
arrangements that are not considered variable interests in the VIE (e.g., 
interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, or where the Company is the 
purchaser of credit protection under a credit default swap or total return 
swap where the Company pays the total return on certain assets to the SPE). 
Receivables under such arrangements are not included in the maximum 
exposure amounts.227Funding Commitments for Significant Unconsolidated VIEsŠLiquidity Facilities and Loan CommitmentsThe following table presents the notional amount of liquidity facilities and loan commitments that are classified as funding commitments in the VIE tables 
above as of December 31, 2012:In millions of dollarsLiquidity facilities
Loan commitmentsCiticorp
$7,615
$Š
62,0754,628ŠŠ1,669Š22Total Citicorp
$12,249
$3,766
Citi Holdings$Š
$243

13ŠŠ992Total Citi Holdings
$13
$1,235
Total Citigroup funding commitments
$12,262
$5,001
Citicorp and Citi Holdings Consolidated VIEsThe Company engages in on-balance-sheet securitizations which are 
securitizations that do not qualify for sales treatment; thus, the assets remain 
on the Company™s balance sheet. The consolidated VIEs included in the 
tables below represent hundreds of separate entities with which the Company 
is involved. In general, the third-party investors in the obligations of 
consolidated VIEs have legal recourse only to the assets of the VIEs and do not 
have such recourse to the Company, except where the Company has provided 
a guarantee to the investors or is the counterparty to certain derivative 
transactions involving the VIE. In addition, the assets are generally restricted 
only to pay such liabilities.Thus, the Company™s maximum legal exposure to loss related to consolidated VIEs is significantly less than the carrying value of the 
consolidated VIE assets due to outstanding third-party financing. 
Intercompany assets and liabilities are excluded from the table. All assets are 
restricted from being sold or pledged as collateral. The cash flows from these 
assets are the only source used to pay down the associated liabilities, which 
are non-recourse to the Company™s general
 assets.The following table presents the carrying amounts and classifications of consolidated assets that are collateral for consolidated VIE and SPE 
obligations as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011:In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012

CiticorpCiti HoldingsCitigroup

$0.3
$0.2$0.5

“
0.5Š0.5

10.7Š10.7
¢
“ˇ˝ˆ˘
102.69.1111.7

0.50.20.7

Total assets
$114.6
$9.5$124.1

$17.9
$Š$17.9

23.82.626.4


1.10.11.2

Total liabilities
$42.8
$2.7$45.5

228Citicorp and Citi Holdings Significant Variable Interests in Unconsolidated VIEsŠBalance Sheet ClassificationThe following table presents the carrying amounts and classification of significant variable interests in unconsolidated VIEs as of December 31, 2012 and 
December 31, 2011:In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012

CiticorpCiti HoldingsCitigroup

“
$4.0
$0.5$4.5
†–†
5.40.76.1

“ˇ˝ˆ˘
14.60.915.5

1.40.51.9

Total assets
$25.4
$2.6$28.0

$Š
$Š$Š
¢¢¢
Total liabilities
ŠŠŠ
¢¢¢
Credit Card Securitizations
The Company securitizes credit card receivables through trusts that are 

established to purchase the receivables. Citigroup transfers receivables into 

the trusts on a non-recourse basis. Credit card securitizations are revolving 

securitizations; that is, as customers pay their credit card balances, the cash 

proceeds are used to purchase new receivables and replenish the receivables in 

the trust.Substantially all of the Company™s credit card securitization activity is through two trustsŠCitibank Credit Card Master Trust (Master Trust) and 

the Citibank Omni Master Trust (Omni Trust). Since the adoption of SFAS 

167 (ASC 810) on January 1, 2010, these trusts are treated as consolidated 
entities because, as servicer, Citigroup has the power to direct the activities 
that most significantly impact the economic performance of the trusts and 
also holds a seller™s interest and certain securities issued by the trusts, and 

provides liquidity facilities to the trusts, which could result in potentially 
significant losses or benefits from the trusts. Accordingly, the transferred 

credit card receivables remain on the Consolidated Balance Sheet with 
no gain or loss recognized. The debt issued by the trusts to third parties is 
included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.The Company relies on securitizations to fund a significant portion of its credit card businesses in North America. The following table reflects amounts related to the Company™s securitized credit card receivables as of 

December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011:CiticorpCiti HoldingsIn billions of dollarsDecember 31,  
2012ˇˇ
December 31,  
2012ˇˇ

$80.7

$0.4


$22.9

$0.1


13.20.1
44.60.2Total ownership interests in principal amount of trust credit card receivables
$80.7

$0.4

229Credit Card SecuritizationsŠCiticorpThe following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to 
Citicorp™s credit card securitizations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 
2011 and 2010:In billions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚

$2.4


(21.7)
Credit Card SecuritizationsŠCiti Holdings
The proceeds from Citi Holdings™ credit card securitizations were $0.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2012.Managed LoansAfter securitization of credit card receivables, the Company continues to 
maintain credit card customer account relationships and provides servicing 
for receivables transferred to the trusts. As a result, the Company considers 
the securitized credit card receivables to be part of the business it manages. 
As Citigroup consolidates the credit card trusts, all managed securitized card 
receivables are on-balance sheet.Funding, Liquidity Facilities and Subordinated InterestsAs noted above, Citigroup securitizes credit card receivables through two 
securitization trustsŠMaster Trust, which is part of Citicorp, and Omni 
Trust, which is also substantially part of Citicorp. The liabilities of the trusts 
are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, excluding those retained 
by Citigroup.Master Trust issues fixed- and floating-rate term notes. Some of the term notes are issued to multi-seller commercial paper conduits. The weighted 
average maturity of the term notes issued by the Master Trust was 3.8 years as 

of December 31, 2012 and 3.1 years as of December 31, 2011.In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 
2012
˜˚˛˛“

$Š
€
“
18.6“
4.8Total Master Trust liabilities
$23.4

The Omni Trust issues fixed- and floating-rate term notes, some of which 
are purchased by multi-seller commercial paper conduits. The weighted 
average maturity of the third-party term notes issued by the Omni Trust was 

1.7 years as of December 31, 2012 and 1.5 years as of December 31, 2011.In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 
 2012
˜˚˛˛“

$Š

“
4.4“
7.1Total Omni Trust liabilities
$11.5

230Mortgage SecuritizationsThe Company provides a wide range of mortgage loan products to a diverse 
customer base. Once originated, the Company often securitizes these loans 
through the use of SPEs. These SPEs are funded through the issuance of trust 
certificates backed solely by the transferred assets. These certificates have the 
same average life as the transferred assets. In addition to providing a source 
of liquidity and less expensive funding, securitizing these assets also reduces 
the Company™s credit exposure to the borrowers. These mortgage loan 
securitizations are primarily non-recourse, thereby effectively transferring 
the risk of future credit losses to the purchasers of the securities issued by 
the trust. However, the Company™s Consumer business generally retains 
the servicing rights and in certain instances retains investment securities, 
interest-only strips and residual interests in future cash flows from the trusts 
and also provides servicing for a limited number of Securities and Banking securitizations. Securities and Banking and Special Asset Pool do not retain 
servicing for their mortgage securitizations.The Company securitizes mortgage loans generally through either a government-sponsored agency, such as Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or Freddie 

Mac (U.S. agency-sponsored mortgages), or private-label (non-agency-sponsored mortgages) securitization. The Company is not the primary 
beneficiary of its U.S. agency-sponsored mortgage securitizations because 
Citigroup does not have the power to direct the activities of the SPE that most 
significantly impact the entity™s economic performance. Therefore, Citi does 

not consolidate these U.S. agency-sponsored mortgage securitizations.The Company does not consolidate certain non-agency-sponsored mortgage securitizations because Citi is either not the servicer with the power 
to direct the significant activities of the entity or Citi is the servicer but the 
servicing relationship is deemed to be a fiduciary relationship and, therefore, 
Citi is not deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the entity.
In certain instances, the Company has (i) the power to direct the activities and (ii) the obligation to either absorb losses or right to receive benefits 
that could be potentially significant to its non-agency-sponsored mortgage 
securitizations and, therefore, is the primary beneficiary and consolidates 
the SPE.Mortgage SecuritizationsŠCiticorp
The following tables summarize selected cash flow information related to Citicorp mortgage securitizations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 
and 2010:2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
In billions of dollarsU.S. agency- 
sponsored mortgagesNon-agency- 
sponsored mortgages




$54.2$2.3

0.5Š 
0.1Š Gains (losses) recognized on the securitization of U.S. agency-sponsored mortgages during 2012 were $10 million. For the year ended December 31, 2012, gains (losses) recognized on the securitization of non-agency-
sponsored mortgages were $20 million.Agency and non-agency mortgage securitization gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $(9) million and $(5) million, respectively.231Key assumptions used in measuring the fair value of retained interests at the date of sale or securitization of mortgage receivables for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows:December 31, 2012
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
 (1)U.S. agency- 
sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated  
interests
0.2% to 14.4%1.2% to 24.0%1.1% to 29.2%
⁄
11.4%8.1%13.8%
6.7% to 36.4%1.9% to 22.8%1.6% to 29.4%
⁄
10.2%9.3%10.1%
NM37.5% to 80.2%33.4% to 90.0%
⁄
NM60.3%54.1%December 31, 2011
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
 (1)U.S. agency- 
sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interests

⁄


⁄

›−
⁄
›−




›−

232The range in the key assumptions is due to the different characteristics of the interests retained by the Company. The interests retained range 
from highly rated and/or senior in the capital structure to unrated and/or 
residual interests.The effect of adverse changes of 10% and 20% in each of the key assumptions used to determine the fair value of retained interests and the sensitivity of the fair value to such adverse changes, each as of December 31, 
2012 and 2011, is set forth in the tables below. The negative effect of each 

change is calculated independently, holding all other assumptions constant. 

Because the key assumptions may not in fact be independent, the net effect of 
simultaneous adverse changes in the key assumptions may be less than the 
sum of the individual effects shown below.
December 31, 2012
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
 (1)U.S. agency- 
sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated  
interests
0.6% to 17.2%1.2% to 24.0%1.1% to 29.2%
⁄
6.1%9.0%13.8%
9.0% to 57.8%1.9% to 22.8%0.5% to 29.4%
⁄
27.7%12.3%10.0%
NM0.1% to 80.2%
33.4% to 90.0
%⁄
NM47.0%54.1%December 31, 2011
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
 (1)U.S. agency- 
sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated  
interests

⁄


⁄

›−
⁄
›−




›−

In millions of dollars at December 31, 2012
U.S. agency-sponsored 
mortgagesNon-agency-sponsored mortgages
 (1)Senior interestsSubordinated interests
Carrying value of retained interests
$1,987
$88
$466

$ (46)
$(2)
$(31)
(90)(4)(59)
 (110)(1)(11)(211)(3)(22)
 (11)(1)(13)(21)(3)(24)

233Mortgage SecuritizationsŠCiti HoldingsThe following tables summarize selected cash flow information related to Citi Holdings mortgage securitizations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 
and 2010: 2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚In billions of dollarsU.S. agency- 
sponsored mortgages




$0.4
0.4
Š Gains recognized on the securitization of U.S. agency-sponsored mortgages were $45 million and $78 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company did not securitize non-agency-sponsored mortgages during the years ended December 31, 2012 
and 2011.Similar to Citicorp mortgage securitizations discussed above, the range in the key assumptions is due to the different characteristics of the interests 
retained by the Company. The interests retained range from highly rated 

and/or senior in the capital structure to unrated and/or residual interests.The effect of adverse changes of 10% and 20% in each of the key assumptions used to determine the fair value of retained interests, and the 
sensitivity of the fair value to such adverse changes, each as of December 31, 
2012 and 2011, is set forth in the tables below. The negative effect of each 

change is calculated independently, holding all other assumptions constant. 

Because the key assumptions may not in fact be independent, the net effect of 
simultaneous adverse changes in the key assumptions may be less than the 
sum of the individual effects shown below.
December 31, 2012
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
 (1)U.S. agency- 
sponsored mortgagesSenior  
interestsSubordinated  
interests
9.7%4.1% to 10.0%3.4% to 12.4%
⁄
9.7%4.2%8.0%
28.6%21.7%12.7% to 18.7%
⁄
28.6%21.7%15.7%
NM0.5%50.0% to 50.1%
⁄
NM0.5%50.1%⁄
4.1 years4.4 years6.0 to 7.4 years
December 31, 2011
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
 (1)U.S. agency- 
sponsored mortgagesSenior  
interestsSubordinated  
interests

⁄


⁄

›−
⁄
›−⁄




234In millions of dollars at December 31, 2012
U.S. agency-sponsored 
mortgagesNon-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)Senior interestsSubordinated interests
Carrying value of retained interests
$618
$39
$16

$(22)
$Š
$(1)
(42)(1)(2)
(57)(3)Š(109)(7)(1)
(32)(9)(2)(64)(19)(4)

Mortgage Servicing RightsIn connection with the securitization of mortgage loans, the Company™s 
U.S. Consumer mortgage business generally retains the servicing rights, 
which entitle the Company to a future stream of cash flows based on the 
outstanding principal balances of the loans and the contractual servicing 
fee. Failure to service the loans in accordance with contractual requirements 
may lead to a termination of the servicing rights and the loss of future 
servicing fees.The fair value of capitalized mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) was $1.9 billion and $2.6 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The MSRs correspond to principal loan balances of $325 billion and $401 billion as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The following table summarizes the changes in capitalized MSRs for the years ended 
December 31, 2012 and 2011:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛Balance, beginning of year
$2,569


423–˛˛(198)(852)ŠBalance, end of year
$1,942


The fair value of the MSRs is primarily affected by changes in prepayments of mortgages that result from shifts in mortgage interest rates. 
In managing this risk, the Company economically hedges a significant 
portion of the value of its MSRs through the use of interest rate derivative 
contracts, forward purchase and sale commitments of mortgage-backed 
securities and purchased securities classified as Trading account assets
.The Company receives fees during the course of servicing previously securitized mortgages. The amounts of these fees for the years ended 
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:In millions of dollars 2012
‚˘˙
$990 


 65 

 122 
Total MSR fees 
$1,177 

These fees are classified in the Consolidated Statement of Income as Other revenue.Re-securitizationsThe Company engages in re-securitization transactions in which debt 
securities are transferred to a VIE in exchange for new beneficial interests. 
During the year ended December 31, 2012, Citi transferred non-agency 
(private-label) securities with an original par value of approximately 
$1.5 billion to re-securitization entities. These securities are backed by either residential or commercial mortgages and are often structured on 
behalf of clients. As of December 31, 2012, the fair value of Citi-retained 
interests in private-label re-securitization transactions structured by Citi 
totaled approximately $380 million ($128 million of which relates to re-securitization transactions executed in 2012) and are recorded in Trading account assets. Of this amount, approximately $11 million and $369 million related to senior and subordinated beneficial interests, respectively. The 
original par value of private-label re-securitization transactions in which 
Citi holds a retained interest as of December 31, 2012 was approximately 
$7.1 billion.235The Company also re-securitizes U.S. government-agency guaranteed mortgage-backed (agency) securities. During the 12 months ended December 31, 2012, Citi transferred agency securities with a fair value of approximately 
$30.3 billion to re-securitization entities. As of December 31, 2012, the fair value of Citi-retained interests in agency re-securitization transactions 
structured by Citi totaled approximately $1.7 billion ($1.1 billion of which related to re-securitization transactions executed in 2012) and is recorded in 
Trading account assets. The original fair value of agency re-securitization transactions in which Citi holds a retained interest as of December 31, 2012 
was approximately $71.2 billion.As of December 31, 2012, the Company did not consolidate any private-label or agency re-securitization entities.Citi-Administered Asset-Backed Commercial Paper ConduitsThe Company is active in the asset-backed commercial paper conduit 
business as administrator of several multi-seller commercial paper conduits 
and also as a service provider to single-seller and other commercial paper 
conduits sponsored by third parties.Citi™s multi-seller commercial paper conduits are designed to provide the Company™s clients access to low-cost funding in the commercial paper 

markets. The conduits purchase assets from or provide financing facilities to 
clients and are funded by issuing commercial paper to third-party investors. 
The conduits generally do not purchase assets originated by the Company. 

The funding of the conduits is facilitated by the liquidity support and credit 
enhancements provided by the Company.
As administrator to Citi™s conduits, the Company is generally responsible 
for selecting and structuring assets purchased or financed by the conduits, 
making decisions regarding the funding of the conduits, including 
determining the tenor and other features of the commercial paper issued, 
monitoring the quality and performance of the conduits™ assets, and 
facilitating the operations and cash flows of the conduits. In return, the 
Company earns structuring fees from customers for individual transactions 
and earns an administration fee from the conduit, which is equal to the 
income from the client program and liquidity fees of the conduit after 
payment of conduit expenses. This administration fee is fairly stable, since 
most risks and rewards of the underlying assets are passed back to the clients 
and, once the asset pricing is negotiated, most ongoing income, costs and 
fees are relatively stable as a percentage of the conduit™s size.
The conduits administered by the Company do not generally invest in liquid securities that are formally rated by third parties. The assets are 
privately negotiated and structured transactions that are designed to be 
held by the conduit, rather than actively traded and sold. The yield earned by the conduit on each asset is generally tied to the rate on the commercial 
paper issued by the conduit, thus passing interest rate risk to the client. Each 
asset purchased by the conduit is structured with transaction-specific credit 
enhancement features provided by the third-party client seller, including 

over collateralization, cash and excess spread collateral accounts, direct 
recourse or third-party guarantees. These credit enhancements are sized with 
the objective of approximating a credit rating of A or above, based on the 
Company™s internal risk ratings.
Substantially all of the funding of the conduits is in the form of short-term commercial paper, with a weighted average life generally ranging 

from 25 to 45 days. At the respective period ends December 31, 2012 and 
December 31, 2011, the weighted average lives of the commercial paper issued by consolidated and unconsolidated conduits were approximately 38 
and 37 days, respectively.The primary credit enhancement provided to the conduit investors is in the form of transaction-specific credit enhancement described above. In 
addition, each consolidated conduit has obtained a letter of credit from the 
Company, which needs to be sized to at least 8Œ10% of the conduit™s assets 

with a floor of $200 million. The letters of credit provided by the Company to the consolidated conduits total approximately $2.1 billion. The net result across all multi-seller conduits administered by the Company is that, in the 
event defaulted assets exceed the transaction-specific credit enhancements 
described above, any losses in each conduit are allocated first to the Company 
and then the commercial paper investors.The Company also provides the conduits with two forms of liquidity agreements that are used to provide funding to the conduits in the event 
of a market disruption, among other events. Each asset of the conduits is 
supported by a transaction-specific liquidity facility in the form of an asset 
purchase agreement (APA). Under the APA, the Company has generally 
agreed to purchase non-defaulted eligible receivables from the conduit at par. 

The APA is not generally designed to provide credit support to the conduit, 

as it generally does not permit the purchase of defaulted or impaired assets. 
Any funding under the APA will likely subject the underlying borrower to 

the conduits to increased interest costs. In addition, the Company provides 
the conduits with program-wide liquidity in the form of short-term lending 
commitments. Under these commitments, the Company has agreed to lend 
to the conduits in the event of a short-term disruption in the commercial 
paper market, subject to specified conditions. The Company receives fees for 
providing both types of liquidity agreements and considers these fees to be on 
fair market terms.236Finally, the Company is one of several named dealers in the commercial 
paper issued by the conduits and earns a market-based fee for providing such services. Along with third-party dealers, the Company makes a market 
in the commercial paper and may from time to time fund commercial 
paper pending sale to a third party. On specific dates with less liquidity in 

the market, the Company may hold in inventory commercial paper issued 
by conduits administered by the Company, as well as conduits administered 

by third parties. The amount of commercial paper issued by its administered 
conduits held in inventory fluctuates based on market conditions and activity. 

As of December 31, 2012, the Company owned $11.7 billion and $131 million of the commercial paper issued by its consolidated and unconsolidated 
administered conduits, respectively.With the exception of the government-guaranteed loan conduit described below, the asset-backed commercial paper conduits are consolidated by the 

Company. The Company determined that through its role as administrator 

it had the power to direct the activities that most significantly impacted the 
entities™ economic performance. These powers included its ability to structure 
and approve the assets purchased by the conduits, its ongoing surveillance 
and credit mitigation activities, and its liability management. In addition, as 
a result of all the Company™s involvement described above, it was concluded 

that the Company had an economic interest that could potentially be 
significant. However, the assets and liabilities of the conduits are separate and 

apart from those of Citigroup. No assets of any conduit are available to satisfy 
the creditors of Citigroup or any of its other subsidiaries.The Company administers one conduit that originates loans to third-party borrowers and those obligations are fully guaranteed primarily by 
AAA-rated government agencies that support export and development 
financing programs. The economic performance of this government-
guaranteed loan conduit is most significantly impacted by the performance 
of its underlying assets. The guarantors must approve each loan held by 
the entity and the guarantors have the ability (through establishment of 
the servicing terms to direct default mitigation and to purchase defaulted 
loans) to manage the conduit™s loans that become delinquent to improve 

the economic performance of the conduit. Because the Company does not 
have the power to direct the activities of this government-guaranteed loan 
conduit that most significantly impact the economic performance of the 
entity, it was concluded that the Company should not consolidate the entity. 

The total notional exposure under the program-wide liquidity agreement 
for the Company™s unconsolidated administered conduit as of December 31, 

2012 is $0.6 billion. The program-wide liquidity agreement, along with each asset APA, is considered in the Company™s maximum exposure to loss to the 
unconsolidated administered conduit.As of December 31, 2012, this unconsolidated government-guaranteed loan conduit held assets and funding commitments of approximately 
$7.6 billion.Third-Party Commercial Paper Conduits
The Company also provides liquidity facilities to single- and multi-seller 
conduits sponsored by third parties. These conduits are independently 
owned and managed and invest in a variety of asset classes, depending on 
the nature of the conduit. The facilities provided by the Company typically 
represent a small portion of the total liquidity facilities obtained by each 
conduit, and are collateralized by the assets of each conduit. The Company 
is not the party that has the power to direct the activities of these conduits 
that most significantly impact their economic performance and thus does 
not consolidate them. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had no 
involvement in third-party commercial paper conduits.Collateralized Debt and Loan ObligationsA securitized collateralized debt obligation (CDO) is an SPE that purchases 
a pool of assets consisting of asset-backed securities and synthetic exposures 
through derivatives on asset-backed securities and issues multiple tranches of 
equity and notes to investors.A cash CDO, or arbitrage CDO, is a CDO designed to take advantage of the difference between the yield on a portfolio of selected assets, typically 
residential mortgage-backed securities, and the cost of funding the CDO 
through the sale of notes to investors. ﬁCash flowﬂ CDOs are entities in which 
the CDO passes on cash flows from a pool of assets, while ﬁmarket valueﬂ 
CDOs pay to investors the market value of the pool of assets owned by the 
CDO at maturity. In these transactions, all of the equity and notes issued by the CDO are funded, as the cash is needed to purchase the debt securities.A synthetic CDO is similar to a cash CDO, except that the CDO obtains exposure to all or a portion of the referenced assets synthetically through 
derivative instruments, such as credit default swaps. Because the CDO does 
not need to raise cash sufficient to purchase the entire referenced portfolio, 
a substantial portion of the senior tranches of risk is typically passed on to 
CDO investors in the form of unfunded liabilities or derivative instruments. 
The CDO writes credit protection on select referenced debt securities to the 
Company or third parties and the risk is then passed on to the CDO investors 
in the form of funded notes or purchased credit protection through derivative 
instruments. Any cash raised from investors is invested in a portfolio of 
collateral securities or investment contracts. The collateral is then used 
to support the obligations of the CDO on the credit default swaps written 
to counterparties.237A securitized collateralized loan obligation (CLO) is substantially similar to the CDO transactions described above, except that the assets owned by the SPE (either cash instruments or synthetic exposures through derivative 
instruments) are corporate loans and to a lesser extent corporate bonds, 
rather than asset-backed debt securities.A third-party asset manager is typically retained by the CDO/CLO to select the pool of assets and manage those assets over the term of the SPE. The 
Company is the manager for a limited number of CLO transactions.The Company earns fees for warehousing assets prior to the creation of a ﬁcash flowﬂ or ﬁmarket valueﬂ CDO/CLO, structuring CDOs/CLOs and 
placing debt securities with investors. In addition, the Company has retained 
interests in many of the CDOs/CLOs it has structured and makes a market in 
the issued notes.The Company™s continuing involvement in synthetic CDOs/CLOs generally 
includes purchasing credit protection through credit default swaps with the 
CDO/CLO, owning a portion of the capital structure of the CDO/CLO in the 
form of both unfunded derivative positions (primarily super-senior exposures 

discussed below) and funded notes, entering into interest-rate swap and total-
return swap transactions with the CDO/CLO, lending to the CDO/CLO, and 
making a market in the funded notes.Where a CDO/CLO entity issues preferred shares (or subordinated notes that are the equivalent form), the preferred shares generally represent an 
insufficient amount of equity (less than 10%) and create the presumption 
that preferred shares are insufficient to finance the entity™s activities 

without subordinated financial support. In addition, although the preferred 
shareholders generally have full exposure to expected losses on the collateral 
and uncapped potential to receive expected residual returns, they generally 
do not have the ability to make decisions about the entity that have a 
significant effect on the entity™s financial results because of their limited 

role in making day-to-day decisions and their limited ability to remove the 
asset manager. Because one or both of the above conditions will generally be 

met, the Company has concluded that, even where a CDO/CLO entity issued 
preferred shares, the entity should be classified as a VIE.In general, the asset manager, through its ability to purchase and sell 
assets orŠwhere the reinvestment period of a CDO/CLO has expiredŠthe 
ability to sell assets, will have the power to direct the activities of the entity 
that most significantly impact the economic performance of the CDO/CLO. 
However, where a CDO/CLO has experienced an event of default or an 

optional redemption period has gone into effect, the activities of the asset 
manager may be curtailed and/or certain additional rights will generally be 
provided to the investors in a CDO/CLO entity, including the right to direct 

the liquidation of the CDO/CLO entity.
The Company has retained significant portions of the ﬁsuper-seniorﬂ 
positions issued by certain CDOs. These positions are referred to as 
ﬁsuper-seniorﬂ because they represent the most senior positions in the 

CDO and, at the time of structuring, were senior to tranches rated AAA by 
independent rating agencies.The Company does not generally have the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the economic performance of the 
CDOs/CLOs as this power is generally held by a third-party asset manager 
of the CDO/CLO. As such, those CDOs/CLOs are not consolidated. The 
Company may consolidate the CDO/CLO when: (i) the Company is the asset 
manager and no other single investor has the unilateral ability to remove 
the Company or unilaterally cause the liquidation of the CDO/CLO, or the 
Company is not the asset manager but has a unilateral right to remove the 
third-party asset manager or unilaterally liquidate the CDO/CLO and receive 
the underlying assets, and (ii) the Company has economic exposure to the 
entity that could be potentially significant to the entity.
The Company continues to monitor its involvement in unconsolidated CDOs/CLOs to assess future consolidation risk. For example, if the Company 
were to acquire additional interests in these entities and obtain the right, due 
to an event of default trigger being met, to unilaterally liquidate or direct 
the activities of a CDO/CLO, the Company may be required to consolidate 
the asset entity. For cash CDOs/CLOs, the net result of such consolidation 

would be to gross up the Company™s balance sheet by the current fair value 

of the securities held by third parties and assets held by the CDO/CLO, which 
amounts are not considered material. For synthetic CDOs/CLOs, the net result 
of such consolidation may reduce the Company™s balance sheet, because 

intercompany derivative receivables and payables would be eliminated in 
consolidation, and other assets held by the CDO/CLO and the securities held 
by third parties would be recognized at their current fair values.Key Assumptions and Retained InterestsŠCiti HoldingsThe key assumptions, used for the securitization of CDOs and CLOs during 
the year ended December 31, 2012, in measuring the fair value of retained 
interests were as follows:CDOsCLOs
46.9% to 51.6%1.9% to 2.1%
The effect of an adverse change of 10% and 20% in the discount rates used to determine the fair value of retained interests at December 31, 2012 is set 
forth in the table below:In millions of dollarsCDOsCLOs
Carrying value of retained interests
$16$428

$(2)$(2)
(3)(4)
238Asset-Based FinancingThe Company provides loans and other forms of financing to VIEs that 
hold assets. Those loans are subject to the same credit approvals as all 
other loans originated or purchased by the Company. Financings in the 
form of debt securities or derivatives are, in most circumstances, reported in 
Trading account assets and accounted for at fair value through earnings. 
The Company generally does not have the power to direct the activities that 
most significantly impact these VIEs™ economic performance and thus it does 
not consolidate them.Asset-Based FinancingŠCiticorpThe primary types of Citicorp™s asset-based financings, total assets of the 
unconsolidated VIEs with significant involvement and the Company™s 
maximum exposure to loss at December 31, 2012, are shown below. For the 
Company to realize that maximum loss, the VIE (borrower) would have to 
default with no recovery from the assets held by the VIE.In billions of dollarsTotal  
unconsolidated  
VIE assetsMaximum exposure to 
unconsolidated VIEsType

$16.1
$3.1

2.01.60.60.4
21.512.0Total
$40.2
$17.1
The following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to asset-based financings for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010:In billions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚


$0.3
The effect of an adverse change of 10% and 20% in the discount rates used to determine the fair value of retained interests at December 31, 2012 is set 
forth in the table below:In millions of dollarsAsset-based FinancingCarrying value of retained interests
$1,726
Š
$(22)
(44)Asset-Based FinancingŠCiti Holdings
The primary types of Citi Holdings™ asset-based financings, total assets of 
the unconsolidated VIEs with significant involvement and the Company™s 
maximum exposure to loss at December 31, 2012, are shown below. For the 
Company to realize that maximum loss, the VIE (borrower) would have to 
default with no recovery from the assets held by the VIE.In billions of dollarsTotal  
unconsolidated  
VIE assetsMaximum exposure to 
unconsolidated VIEsType

$0.9
$0.3

0.40.3
2.90.6Total
$4.2
$1.2
The following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to asset-based financings for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010:In billions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚


$1.7
The effect of an adverse change of 10% and 20% in the discount rates used to determine the fair value of retained interests at December 31, 2012 is set 
forth in the table below:In millions of dollarsAsset-based FinancingCarrying value of retained interests
$339
Š
$Š
ŠMunicipal Securities Tender Option Bond (TOB) Trusts
TOB trusts hold fixed- and floating-rate, taxable and tax-exempt securities 
issued by state and local governments and municipalities. The trusts are 
typically single-issuer trusts whose assets are purchased from the Company 
or from other investors in the municipal securities market. The TOB trusts 
fund the purchase of their assets by issuing long-term, putable floating rate 
certificates (Floaters) and residual certificates (Residuals). The trusts are 
referred to as TOB trusts because the Floater holders have the ability to tender 
their interests periodically back to the issuing trust, as described further 
below. The Floaters and Residuals evidence beneficial ownership interests in, 
and are collateralized by, the underlying assets of the trust. The Floaters are 
held by third-party investors, typically tax-exempt money market funds. The 
Residuals are typically held by the original owner of the municipal securities 
being financed.239The Floaters and the Residuals have a tenor that is equal to or shorter than the tenor of the underlying municipal bonds. The Residuals entitle their holders to the residual cash flows from the issuing trust, the interest income 
generated by the underlying municipal securities net of interest paid on the 
Floaters, and trust expenses. The Residuals are rated based on the long-term 
rating of the underlying municipal bond. The Floaters bear variable interest 
rates that are reset periodically to a new market rate based on a spread to a 
high grade, short-term, tax-exempt index. The Floaters have a long-term 
rating based on the long-term rating of the underlying municipal bond and 
a short-term rating based on that of the liquidity provider to the trust.There are two kinds of TOB trusts: customer TOB trusts and non-customer TOB trusts. Customer TOB trusts are trusts through which customers 
finance their investments in municipal securities. The Residuals are held 
by customers and the Floaters by third-party investors, typically tax-exempt 
money market funds. Non-customer TOB trusts are trusts through which 
the Company finances its own investments in municipal securities. In such 
trusts, the Company holds the Residuals and third-party investors, typically 
tax-exempt money market funds, hold the Floaters.The Company serves as remarketing agent to the trusts, placing the Floaters with third-party investors at inception, facilitating the periodic reset 
of the variable rate of interest on the Floaters and remarketing any tendered 
Floaters. If Floaters are tendered and the Company (in its role as remarketing 
agent) is unable to find a new investor within a specified period of time, it 
can declare a failed remarketing, in which case the trust is unwound. The 
Company may, but is not obligated to, buy the Floaters into its own inventory. 

The level of the Company™s inventory of Floaters fluctuates over time. As of 

December 31, 2012, the Company held $203 million of Floaters related to both customer and non-customer TOB trusts.For certain non-customer trusts, the Company also provides credit enhancement. Approximately $184 million of the municipal bonds owned by TOB trusts have a credit guarantee provided by the Company.The Company provides liquidity to many of the outstanding trusts. If a trust is unwound early due to an event other than a credit event on the 
underlying municipal bond, the underlying municipal bonds are sold in the 
market. If there is a shortfall in the trust™s cash flows between the redemption 

price of the tendered Floaters and the proceeds from the sale of the 
underlying municipal bonds, the trust draws on a liquidity agreement in an 
amount equal to the shortfall. For customer TOBs where the Residual is less 
than 25% of the trust™s capital structure, the Company has a reimbursement 

agreement with the Residual holder under which the Residual holder reimburses the Company for any payment made under the liquidity 
arrangement. Through this reimbursement agreement, the Residual holder 
remains economically exposed to fluctuations in value of the underlying 
municipal bonds. These reimbursement agreements are generally subject 
to daily margining based on changes in value of the underlying municipal 
bond. In cases where a third party provides liquidity to a non-customer TOB 
trust, a similar reimbursement arrangement is made whereby the Company 
(or a consolidated subsidiary of the Company) as Residual holder absorbs 
any losses incurred by the liquidity provider.
As of December 31, 2012, liquidity agreements provided with respect to customer TOB trusts totaled $4.9 billion, of which $3.6 billion was offset by reimbursement agreements. The remaining exposure related to TOB 
transactions, where the Residual owned by the customer was at least 25% of 
the bond value at the inception of the transaction and no reimbursement 
agreement was executed. The Company also provides other liquidity 
agreements or letters of credit to customer-sponsored municipal investment funds, which are not variable interest entities, and municipality-related 
issuers that totaled $6.4 billion as of December 31, 2012. These liquidity agreements and letters of credit are offset by reimbursement agreements with 
various term-out provisions.The Company considers the customer and non-customer TOB trusts to be VIEs. Customer TOB trusts are not consolidated by the Company. The Company has concluded that the power to direct the activities that most 
significantly impact the economic performance of the customer TOB trusts is 
primarily held by the customer Residual holder, who may unilaterally cause 

the sale of the trust™s bonds.
Non-customer TOB trusts generally are consolidated. Similar to customer TOB trusts, the Company has concluded that the power over the non-
customer TOB trusts is primarily held by the Residual holder, which may 

unilaterally cause the sale of the trust™s bonds. Because the Company holds 

the Residual interest, and thus has the power to direct the activities that most 
significantly impact the trust™s economic performance, it consolidates the 

non-customer TOB trusts.Municipal InvestmentsMunicipal investment transactions include debt and equity interests in 
partnerships that finance the construction and rehabilitation of low-income 
housing, facilitate lending in new or underserved markets, or finance 
the construction or operation of renewable municipal energy facilities. 
The Company generally invests in these partnerships as a limited partner 
and earns a return primarily through the receipt of tax credits and grants 
earned from the investments made by the partnership. The Company may 
also provide construction loans or permanent loans to the development or 
continuation of real estate properties held by partnerships. These entities are 
generally considered VIEs. The power to direct the activities of these entities 
is typically held by the general partner. Accordingly, these entities are not 
consolidated by the Company.240Client IntermediationClient intermediation transactions represent a range of transactions 
designed to provide investors with specified returns based on the returns 
of an underlying security, referenced asset or index. These transactions 
include credit-linked notes and equity-linked notes. In these transactions, 
the VIE typically obtains exposure to the underlying security, referenced 
asset or index through a derivative instrument, such as a total-return swap 
or a credit-default swap. In turn the VIE issues notes to investors that pay a 
return based on the specified underlying security, referenced asset or index. 
The VIE invests the proceeds in a financial asset or a guaranteed insurance 
contract that serves as collateral for the derivative contract over the term of 
the transaction. The Company™s involvement in these transactions includes 
being the counterparty to the VIE™s derivative instruments and investing in a 
portion of the notes issued by the VIE. In certain transactions, the investor™s 
maximum risk of loss is limited and the Company absorbs risk of loss above 
a specified level. The Company does not have the power to direct the activities 
of the VIEs that most significantly impact their economic performance and 
thus it does not consolidate them.The Company™s maximum risk of loss in these transactions is defined 
as the amount invested in notes issued by the VIE and the notional amount 
of any risk of loss absorbed by the Company through a separate instrument 
issued by the VIE. The derivative instrument held by the Company may 
generate a receivable from the VIE (for example, where the Company 
purchases credit protection from the VIE in connection with the VIE™s 

issuance of a credit-linked note), which is collateralized by the assets 
owned by the VIE. These derivative instruments are not considered variable 
interests and any associated receivables are not included in the calculation of 
maximum exposure to the VIE.Investment FundsThe Company is the investment manager for certain investment funds that 
invest in various asset classes including private equity, hedge funds, real 
estate, fixed income and infrastructure. The Company earns a management 
fee, which is a percentage of capital under management, and may earn 
performance fees. In addition, for some of these funds the Company has 
an ownership interest in the investment funds. The Company has also 
established a number of investment funds as opportunities for qualified 
employees to invest in private equity investments. The Company acts as 
investment manager to these funds and may provide employees with 
financing on both recourse and non-recourse bases for a portion of the 
employees™ investment commitments.The Company has determined that a majority of the investment entities managed by Citigroup are provided a deferral from the requirements of SFAS 

167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)
, because they meet the 
criteria in Accounting Standards Update No. 2010-10, Consolidation (Topic 
810), Amendments for Certain Investment Funds (ASU 2010-10). These 
entities continue to be evaluated under the requirements of ASC 810-10, prior 
to the implementation of SFAS 167 (FIN 46(R), 
Consolidation of Variable 

Interest Entities), which required that a VIE be consolidated by the party with 
a variable interest that will absorb a majority of the entity™s expected losses or 

residual returns, or both.Trust Preferred Securities
The Company has raised financing through the issuance of trust preferred 
securities. In these transactions, the Company forms a statutory business trust 

and owns all of the voting equity shares of the trust. The trust issues preferred 
equity securities to third-party investors and invests the gross proceeds in 
junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the Company. 
The trusts have no assets, operations, revenues or cash flows other than those 
related to the issuance, administration and repayment of the preferred equity 
securities held by third-party investors. Obligations of the trusts are fully and 
unconditionally guaranteed by the Company.Because the sole asset of each of the trusts is a receivable from the Company and the proceeds to the Company from the receivable exceed 
the Company™s investment in the VIE™s equity shares, the Company is not 

permitted to consolidate the trusts, even though it owns all of the voting 
equity shares of the trust, has fully guaranteed the trusts™ obligations, and 
has the right to redeem the preferred securities in certain circumstances. 
The Company recognizes the subordinated debentures on its Consolidated 
Balance Sheet as long-term liabilities. For additional information, see Note 
19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.241In the ordinary course of business, Citigroup enters into various types of derivative transactions. These derivative transactions include:Futures and forward contracts, which are commitments to buy or sell at a future date a financial instrument, commodity or currency at a 
contracted price and may be settled in cash or through delivery.Swap contracts, which are commitments to settle in cash at a future date 
or dates that may range from a few days to a number of years, based on 
differentials between specified financial indices, as applied to a notional 
principal amount.Option contracts, which give the purchaser, for a premium, the right, 
but not the obligation, to buy or sell within a specified time a financial 
instrument, commodity or currency at a contracted price that may also be 
settled in cash, based on differentials between specified indices or prices.Citigroup enters into these derivative contracts relating to interest rate, foreign currency, commodity and other market/credit risks for the 
following reasons:Trading PurposesŠCustomer Needs: Citigroup offers its customers derivatives in connection with their risk-management actions to transfer, 
modify or reduce their interest rate, foreign exchange and other market/
credit risks or for their own trading purposes. As part of this process, 
Citigroup considers the customers™ suitability for the risk involved and the 
business purpose for the transaction. Citigroup also manages its derivative 
risk positions through offsetting trade activities, controls focused on price 
verification, and daily reporting of positions to senior managers.Trading PurposesŠCitigroup trades derivatives as an active market 
maker. Trading limits and price verification controls are key aspects of 
this activity.HedgingŠCitigroup uses derivatives in connection with its risk-
management activities to hedge certain risks or reposition the risk profile 
of the Company. For example, Citigroup issues fixed-rate long-term 
debt and then enters into a receive-fixed, pay-variable-rate interest rate 
swap with the same tenor and notional amount to convert the interest 
payments to a net variable-rate basis. This strategy is the most common 
form of an interest rate hedge, as it minimizes interest cost in certain yield 
curve environments. Derivatives are also used to manage risks inherent 
in specific groups of on-balance-sheet assets and liabilities, including 
AFS securities and borrowings, as well as other interest-sensitive assets 
and liabilities. In addition, foreign-exchange contracts are used to hedge 
non-U.S.-dollar-denominated debt, foreign-currency-denominated AFS 
securities and net investment exposures.Derivatives may expose Citigroup to market, credit or liquidity risks in excess of the amounts recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Market 
risk on a derivative product is the exposure created by potential fluctuations 
in interest rates, foreign-exchange rates and other factors and is a function 
of the type of product, the volume of transactions, the tenor and terms of the 
agreement and the underlying volatility. Credit risk is the exposure to loss 

in the event of nonperformance by the other party to the transaction where 
the value of any collateral held is not adequate to cover such losses. The 
recognition in earnings of unrealized gains on these transactions is subject 
to management™s assessment as to collectability. Liquidity risk is the potential 

exposure that arises when the size of the derivative position may not be able 
to be rapidly adjusted at a reasonable cost in periods of high volatility and 
financial stress.Information pertaining to the volume of derivative activity is provided in the tables below. The notional amounts, for both long and short derivative 

positions, of Citigroup™s derivative instruments as of December 31, 2012 and 

December 31, 2011 are presented in the table below.
242Hedging instruments under ASC 815 (SFAS 133)
 (1)(2)Other derivative instruments
Trading derivativesManagement hedges
 (3)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
2012ˇ
December 31, 
2012ˇ
December 31, 
2012ˇ
Interest rate contracts
$114,296

$30,050,856

$99,434


Š4,823,37045,856Š3,752,90522,992Š3,542,0487,890Total interest rate contract notionals
$114,296

$42,169,179

$176,172

Foreign exchange contracts

$ 22,207

$ 1,393,368

$ 16,900


70,4843,484,19333,76896781,698989456778,4382,106Total foreign exchange contract notionals
$93,243

$ 6,437,697

$ 53,763

Equity contracts
$ Š

$ 96,039

$ Š


Š16,171ŠŠ320,243ŠŠ281,236ŠTotal equity contract notionals
$ Š

$ 713,689

$ Š

Commodity and other contracts
$ Š

$ 27,323

$ Š


Š75,897ŠŠ86,418ŠŠ89,284ŠTotal commodity and other contract notionals
$ Š

$ 278,922

$ Š

Credit derivatives
 (4)$Š

$ 1,346,494

$ Š

3541,412,19421,741Total credit derivatives
$ 354

$ 2,758,688

$ 21,741

Total derivative notionals
$207,893

$52,358,175

$251,676

ˇ
–ˇ
ˇ–›
ˇ

Other assets/Other liabilities
 Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities

ˇ
ˇ
Other assets/Other liabilities
Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities

ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ

243Derivatives classified in trading 
account assets/liabilities (1)(2)Derivatives classified in other
 assets/liabilities (2)In millions of dollars at December 31, 2012
AssetsLiabilities
AssetsLiabilities
Derivative instruments designated as ASC 815 (SFAS 133) hedges

$ 7,795$ 2,263$4,574$1,178
3411,350
978525

ŠŠ Š 16
Total derivative instruments designated as ASC 815 (SFAS 133) hedges
$8,136$3,613$5,552$1,719
Other derivative instruments


$ 895,726$ 890,405$449$29
76,29180,771
200112
18,29331,867
ŠŠ
10,90712,142
ŠŠ

54,27552,300
102392
Total other derivative instruments
$1,055,492$1,067,485$751$533
Total derivatives
$1,063,628$1,071,098$6,303$2,252

5,5977,923
214658
‡
(975,695)(971,715)
ŠŠ

(38,910)(55,555)
(4,660)Š
Net receivables/payables
$ 54,620$ 51,751$ 1,857$ 2,910
ˇ

ˇ

Other assets/Other liabilities
 Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities
›ˇ
ˇ

ˇ
–›

ˇ
–›

ˇ
‡
ˇ
‡
Derivatives classified in trading
 account assets/liabilities (1)(2)Derivatives classified in other
 assets/liabilities(2)In millions of dollars at December 31, 2011
AssetsLiabilitiesAssetsLiabilities
Derivative instruments designated as ASC 815 (SFAS 133) hedges








Total derivative instruments designated as ASC 815 (SFAS 133) hedges

Other derivative instruments












Total other derivative instruments

Total derivatives




‡





Net receivables/payables

ˇ

ˇ

Other assets/Other liabilities
Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities
›ˇ
ˇ

ˇ
–›

ˇ
–›

ˇ
‡
ˇ
‡
244All derivatives are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value. In addition, where applicable, all such contracts covered by master netting agreements are reported net. Gross positive fair values are netted with 
gross negative fair values by counterparty pursuant to a valid master netting 
agreement. In addition, payables and receivables in respect of cash collateral 
received from or paid to a given counterparty are included in this netting. 
However, non-cash collateral is not included.
The amounts recognized in Principal transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
related to derivatives not designated in a qualifying hedging relationship as 
well as the underlying non-derivative instruments are included in the table 
below. Citigroup presents this disclosure by business classification, showing 

derivative gains and losses related to its trading activities together with gains 
and losses related to non-derivative instruments within the same trading 
portfolios, as this represents the way these portfolios are risk managed.Year ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2012

$2,301

2,403
158˘
92

(173)
Total Citigroup
 (1)$4,781

ˇ
The amounts recognized in Other revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 are shown 
below. The table below does not include the offsetting gains/losses on the 

hedged items, which amounts are also recorded in Other revenue.Gains (losses) included in Other revenue 
Year ended December 31, 
In millions of dollars2012 

$(427)

182

(1,022)
Total Citigroup
 (1)$(1,267)

€
ˇ

ˇCitigroup accounts for its hedging activities in accordance with ASC 815, 

Derivatives and Hedging (formerly SFAS 133). As a general rule, hedge 

accounting is permitted where the Company is exposed to a particular risk, 

such as interest-rate or foreign-exchange risk, that causes changes in the fair 

value of an asset or liability or variability in the expected future cash flows of an 

existing asset, liability or a forecasted transaction that may affect earnings.Derivative contracts hedging the risks associated with the changes in fair value are referred to as fair value hedges, while contracts hedging the risks 
affecting the expected future cash flows are called cash flow hedges. Hedges 
that utilize derivatives or debt instruments to manage the foreign exchange 
risk associated with equity investments in non-U.S.-dollar-functional-

currency foreign subsidiaries (net investment in a foreign operation) are 
called net investment hedges.If certain hedging criteria specified in ASC 815 are met, including testing for hedge effectiveness, special hedge accounting may be applied. The hedge 
effectiveness assessment methodologies for similar hedges are performed 
in a similar manner and are used consistently throughout the hedging 
relationships. For fair value hedges, the changes in value of the hedging 
derivative, as well as the changes in value of the related hedged item due to 
the risk being hedged, are reflected in current earnings. For cash flow hedges 
and net investment hedges, the changes in value of the hedging derivative are 
reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Citigroup™s 

stockholders™ equity, to the extent the hedge is effective. Hedge ineffectiveness, 

in either case, is reflected in current earnings.245For asset/liability management hedging, the fixed-rate long-term debt would be recorded at amortized cost under current U.S. GAAP. However, by 
electing to use ASC 815 (SFAS 133) fair value hedge accounting, the carrying 

value of the debt is adjusted for changes in the benchmark interest rate, 
with any such changes in value recorded in current earnings. The related 
interest-rate swap is also recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, with 
any changes in fair value reflected in earnings. Thus, any ineffectiveness 
resulting from the hedging relationship is recorded in current earnings. 
Alternatively, a management hedge, which does not meet the ASC 815 

hedging criteria, would involve recording only the derivative at fair value 
on the balance sheet, with its associated changes in fair value recorded in 
earnings. The debt would continue to be carried at amortized cost and, 
therefore, current earnings would be impacted only by the interest rate 
shifts and other factors that cause the change in the swap™s value and may 

change the underlying yield of the debt. This type of hedge is undertaken 
when hedging requirements cannot be achieved or management decides not 
to apply ASC 815 hedge accounting. Another alternative for the Company is 
to elect to carry the debt at fair value under the fair value option. Once the 
irrevocable election is made upon issuance of the debt, the full change in 
fair value of the debt would be reported in earnings. The related interest rate 
swap, with changes in fair value, would also be reflected in earnings, and 
provides a natural offset to the debt™s fair value change. To the extent the two 

offsets are not exactly equal, the difference is reflected in current earnings.Key aspects of achieving ASC 815 hedge accounting are documentation 
of hedging strategy and hedge effectiveness at the hedge inception and 

substantiating hedge effectiveness on an ongoing basis. A derivative must 

be highly effective in accomplishing the hedge objective of offsetting either 

changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item for the risk being 

hedged. Any ineffectiveness in the hedge relationship is recognized in current 

earnings. The assessment of effectiveness excludes changes in the value of 

the hedged item that are unrelated to the risks being hedged. Similarly, the 

assessment of effectiveness may exclude changes in the fair value of a derivative 

related to time value that, if excluded, are recognized in current earnings.Hedging of benchmark interest rate risk
Citigroup hedges exposure to changes in the fair value of outstanding fixed-rate 

issued debt and certificates of deposit. Depending on the risk management 

objectives, these types of hedges are designated as either fair value hedges 

of only the benchmark interest rate risk or fair value hedges of both the 

benchmark interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The fixed cash flows from 

those financing transactions are converted to benchmark variable-rate cash 

flows by entering into, respectively, receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate 

swaps or receive-fixed in non-functional currency, pay variable in functional 

currency swaps. These fair value hedge relationships use either regression or 

dollar-offset ratio analysis to determine whether the hedging relationships are 

highly effective at inception and on an ongoing basis.Citigroup also hedges exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate 
assets, including available-for-sale debt securities and loans. When certain 

interest rates do not qualify as a benchmark interest rate, Citigroup designates 

the risk being hedged as the risk of changes in overall fair value of the hedged 

AFS securities. The hedging instruments used are receive-variable, pay-fixed 

interest rate swaps. These fair value hedging relationships use either regression 

or dollar-offset ratio analysis to determine whether the hedging relationships 

are highly effective at inception and on an ongoing basis.Hedging of foreign exchange riskCitigroup hedges the change in fair value attributable to foreign-exchange 
rate movements in available-for-sale securities that are denominated in 
currencies other than the functional currency of the entity holding the 
securities, which may be within or outside the U.S. The hedging instrument 
employed is a forward foreign-exchange contract. In this type of hedge, the 
change in fair value of the hedged available-for-sale security attributable 
to the portion of foreign exchange risk hedged is reported in earnings and 
not Accumulated other comprehensive incomeŠa process that serves 
to offset substantially the change in fair value of the forward contract that 
is also reflected in earnings. Citigroup considers the premium associated 
with forward contracts (differential between spot and contractual forward 
rates) as the cost of hedging; this is excluded from the assessment of hedge 
effectiveness and reflected directly in earnings. The dollar-offset method is 
used to assess hedge effectiveness. Since that assessment is based on changes 
in fair value attributable to changes in spot rates on both the available-for-
sale securities and the forward contracts for the portion of the relationship 
hedged, the amount of hedge ineffectiveness is not significant.246The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Company™s fair value hedges for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010:Gains (losses) on fair value hedges 
Year ended December 31,
 (1)In millions of dollars2012
Gain (loss) on derivatives in designated and qualifying fair value hedges

$122

377
Total gain (loss) on derivatives in designated and qualifying fair value hedges
$499

Gain (loss) on the hedged item in designated and qualifying fair value hedges


$(371)

(331)
Total gain (loss) on the hedged item in designated and qualifying fair value hedges
$(702)

Hedge ineffectiveness recognized in earnings on designated and qualifying fair value hedges


$(249)

16
Total hedge ineffectiveness recognized in earnings on designated and qualifying fair value hedges
$(233)

Net gain (loss) excluded from assessment of the effectiveness of fair value hedges


$Š

30
Total net gain (loss) excluded from assessment of the effectiveness of fair value hedges
$30

ˇOther revenueˇ
 Net interest revenue˙š˚›
Hedging of benchmark interest rate riskCitigroup hedges variable cash flows resulting from floating-rate liabilities 
and rollover (re-issuance) of liabilities. Variable cash flows from those 
liabilities are converted to fixed-rate cash flows by entering into receive-
variable, pay-fixed interest rate swaps and receive-variable, pay-fixed 
forward-starting interest rate swaps. Citi also hedges variable cash flows from 
recognized and forecasted floating-rate assets and origination of short-term 
assets. Variable cash flows from those assets are converted to fixed-rate 
cash flows by entering into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps. 
These cash-flow hedging relationships use either regression analysis or 
dollar-offset ratio analysis to assess whether the hedging relationships are 
highly effective at inception and on an ongoing basis. When certain interest 
rates do not qualify as a benchmark interest rate, Citigroup designates the 
risk being hedged as the risk of overall changes in the hedged cash flows. 
Since efforts are made to match the terms of the derivatives to those of the 
hedged forecasted cash flows as closely as possible, the amount of hedge 
ineffectiveness is not significant.Hedging of foreign exchange risk
Citigroup locks in the functional currency equivalent cash flows of long-term 

debt and short-term borrowings that are denominated in a currency other 

than the functional currency of the issuing entity. Depending on the risk 

management objectives, these types of hedges are designated as either cash 

flow hedges of only foreign exchange risk or cash flow hedges of both foreign 

exchange and interest rate risk, and the hedging instruments used are foreign 

exchange cross-currency swaps and forward contracts. These cash flow hedge 

relationships use dollar-offset ratio analysis to determine whether the hedging 

relationships are highly effective at inception and on an ongoing basis.Hedging of overall changes in cash flowsCitigroup hedges the overall exposure to variability in cash flows related 
to the future acquisition of mortgage-backed securities using ﬁto be 
announcedﬂ forward contracts. Since the hedged transaction is the gross 
settlement of the forward, the assessment of hedge effectiveness is based on 
assuring that the terms of the hedging instrument and the hedged forecasted 
transaction are the same.Hedging total returnCitigroup generally manages the risk associated with leveraged loans it 
has originated or in which it participates by transferring a majority of its 
exposure to the market through SPEs prior to or shortly after funding. 
Retained exposures to leveraged loans receivable are generally hedged using 
total return swaps.The amount of hedge ineffectiveness on the cash flow hedges recognized in earnings for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is 
not significant.247The pretax change in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) from cash flow hedges is presented below:Year ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2012
Effective portion of cash flow hedges included in AOCI

$(322)

143
Total effective portion of cash flow hedges included in AOCI
$(179)

Effective portion of cash flow hedges reclassified from AOCI to earnings


$(837)

(180)
Total effective portion of cash flow hedges reclassified from AOCI to earnings
 (1)$(1,017)

ˇ
Other revenueNet interest revenue
For cash flow hedges, any changes in the fair value of the end-user derivative remaining in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the Consolidated Balance Sheet will be included in earnings of future 
periods to offset the variability of the hedged cash flows when such cash 
flows affect earnings. The net loss associated with cash flow hedges expected 
to be reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
within 12 months of December 31, 2012 is approximately $1.0 billion. The 
maximum length of time over which forecasted cash flows are hedged is 
10 years.The after-tax impact of cash flow hedges on AOCI is shown in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Consistent with ASC 830-20, Foreign Currency MattersŠForeign Currency 
Transactions (formerly SFAS 52, Foreign Currency Translation), ASC 815 
allows hedging of the foreign currency risk of a net investment in a foreign 
operation. Citigroup uses foreign currency forwards, options and foreign-
currency-denominated debt instruments to manage the foreign exchange 
risk associated with Citigroup™s equity investments in several non-U.S.-dollar-
functional-currency foreign subsidiaries. Citigroup records the change in the 
carrying amount of these investments in the Foreign currency translation 
adjustment account within Accumulated other comprehensive income 
(loss). Simultaneously, the effective portion of the hedge of this exposure is 
also recorded in the Foreign currency translation adjustment account and 
the ineffective portion, if any, is immediately recorded in earnings.For derivatives designated as net investment hedges, Citigroup follows the forward-rate method from FASB Derivative Implementation Group Issue 

H8 (now ASC 815-35-35-16 through 35-26), ﬁForeign Currency Hedges: 
Measuring the Amount of Ineffectiveness in a Net Investment Hedge.ﬂ 
According to that method, all changes in fair value, including changes 
related to the forward-rate component of the foreign currency forward 
contracts and the time value of foreign currency options, are recorded in the 
Foreign currency translation adjustment account within Accumulated 
other comprehensive income (loss).For foreign-currency-denominated debt instruments that are designated as hedges of net investments, the translation gain or loss that is recorded in 
the Foreign currency translation adjustment account is based on the spot 
exchange rate between the functional currency of the respective subsidiary and the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of Citigroup. To the 

extent the notional amount of the hedging instrument exactly matches the 
hedged net investment and the underlying exchange rate of the derivative 
hedging instrument relates to the exchange rate between the functional 
currency of the net investment and Citigroup™s functional currency (or, in the 

case of a non-derivative debt instrument, such instrument is denominated in 
the functional currency of the net investment), no ineffectiveness is recorded 
in earnings.The pretax gain (loss) recorded in the Foreign currency translation adjustment account within Accumulated other comprehensive income 
(loss), related to the effective portion of the net investment hedges, is 
$(3,829) million, $904 million, and $(3,620) million, for the years ended 
December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.
A credit derivative is a bilateral contract between a buyer and a seller 
under which the seller agrees to provide protection to the buyer against the 
credit risk of a particular entity (ﬁreference entityﬂ or ﬁreference creditﬂ). 
Credit derivatives generally require that the seller of credit protection make 
payments to the buyer upon the occurrence of predefined credit events 
(commonly referred to as ﬁsettlement triggersﬂ). These settlement triggers 
are defined by the form of the derivative and the reference credit and are 
generally limited to the market standard of failure to pay on indebtedness 
and bankruptcy of the reference credit and, in a more limited range of 
transactions, debt restructuring. Credit derivative transactions referring to 
emerging market reference credits will also typically include additional 
settlement triggers to cover the acceleration of indebtedness and the risk of 
repudiation or a payment moratorium. In certain transactions, protection 
may be provided on a portfolio of reference credits or asset-backed securities. 
The seller of such protection may not be required to make payment until a 
specified amount of losses has occurred with respect to the portfolio and/or 
may only be required to pay for losses up to a specified amount.The Company makes markets and trades a range of credit derivatives. Through these contracts, the Company either purchases or writes protection 
on either a single name or a portfolio of reference credits. The Company 
also uses credit derivatives to help mitigate credit risk in its Corporate 
and Consumer loan portfolios and other cash positions, and to facilitate 
client transactions.248The range of credit derivatives sold includes credit default swaps, total return swaps, credit options and credit-linked notes.A credit default swap is a contract in which, for a fee, a protection seller agrees to reimburse a protection buyer for any losses that occur due to a credit event on a reference entity. If there is no credit default event or 

settlement trigger, as defined by the specific derivative contract, then the 

protection seller makes no payments to the protection buyer and receives only 
the contractually specified fee. However, if a credit event occurs as defined in 

the specific derivative contract sold, the protection seller will be required to 
make a payment to the protection buyer.
A total return swap transfers the total economic performance of a reference asset, which includes all associated cash flows, as well as capital 
appreciation or depreciation. The protection buyer receives a floating rate 
of interest and any depreciation on the reference asset from the protection 
seller and, in return, the protection seller receives the cash flows associated 
with the reference asset plus any appreciation. Thus, according to the total 
return swap agreement, the protection seller will be obligated to make a 
payment any time the floating interest rate payment and any depreciation 
of the reference asset exceed the cash flows associated with the underlying 
asset. A total return swap may terminate upon a default of the reference asset 
subject to the provisions of the related total return swap agreement between 
the protection seller and the protection buyer.
A credit option is a credit derivative that allows investors to trade or hedge changes in the credit quality of the reference asset. For example, in a credit 
spread option, the option writer assumes the obligation to purchase or sell the 
reference asset at a specified ﬁstrikeﬂ spread level. The option purchaser buys 
the right to sell the reference asset to, or purchase it from, the option writer at 
the strike spread level. The payments on credit spread options depend either 
on a particular credit spread or the price of the underlying credit-sensitive 
asset. The options usually terminate if the underlying assets default.A credit-linked note is a form of credit derivative structured as a debt security with an embedded credit default swap. The purchaser of the note 
writes credit protection to the issuer, and receives a return that will be 

negatively affected by credit events on the underlying reference credit. If 
the reference entity defaults, the purchaser of the credit-linked note may 
assume the long position in the debt security and any future cash flows 
from it, but will lose the amount paid to the issuer of the credit-linked note. 
Thus the maximum amount of the exposure is the carrying amount of the 
credit-linked note. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the 
amount of credit-linked notes held by the Company in trading inventory 
was immaterial.The following tables summarize the key characteristics of the Company™s credit derivative portfolio as protection seller as of December 31, 2012 and 
December 31, 2011:In millions of dollars as of 
December 31, 2012
Maximum potential amount of future paymentsFair 
value 
payable
 (1)(2)By industry/counterparty
$863,411$18,824

304,9689,193
3,24187
174,8743,726
Total by industry/counterparty
$1,346,494$31,830
By instrument

$1,345,162$31,624
•
1,332206
Total by instrument
$1,346,494$31,830
By rating

$637,343$6,290

200,52915,591

508,6229,949
Total by rating
$1,346,494$31,830
By maturity
$287,670$2,388
965,05921,542
93,7657,900
Total by maturity
$1,346,494$31,830
ˇ

ˇ

In millions of dollars as of  December 31, 2011
Maximum potential amount of future paymentsFair 
value 
payable
 (1)(2)By industry/counterparty





Total by industry/counterparty

By instrument


•

Total by instrument

By rating






Total by rating

By maturity



Total by maturity

ˇ

ˇ

249Citigroup evaluates the payment/performance risk of the credit derivatives for which it stands as a protection seller based on the credit rating assigned to the underlying referenced credit. Where external ratings by nationally 
recognized statistical rating organizations (such as Moody™s and S&P) 

are used, investment grade ratings are considered to be Baa/BBB or above, 
while anything below is considered non-investment grade. The Citigroup 
internal ratings are in line with the related external credit rating system. 
On certain underlying reference credits, mainly related to over-the-counter 

credit derivatives, ratings are not available, and these are included in the not-
rated category. Credit derivatives written on an underlying non-investment 

grade reference credit represent greater payment risk to the Company. The 

non-investment grade category in the table above primarily includes credit 
derivatives where the underlying referenced entity has been downgraded 
subsequent to the inception of the derivative.The maximum potential amount of future payments under credit derivative contracts presented in the table above is based on the notional 
value of the derivatives. The Company believes that the maximum potential 
amount of future payments for credit protection sold is not representative 
of the actual loss exposure based on historical experience. This amount 
has not been reduced by the Company™s rights to the underlying assets and 

the related cash flows. In accordance with most credit derivative contracts, 
should a credit event (or settlement trigger) occur, the Company is usually 

liable for the difference between the protection sold and the recourse it holds 
in the value of the underlying assets. Thus, if the reference entity defaults, 
Citi will generally have a right to collect on the underlying reference credit 
and any related cash flows, while being liable for the full notional amount 
of credit protection sold to the buyer. Furthermore, this maximum potential 

amount of future payments for credit protection sold has not been reduced 
for any cash collateral paid to a given counterparty as such payments would 
be calculated after netting all derivative exposures, including any credit 
derivatives with that counterparty in accordance with a related master 
netting agreement. Due to such netting processes, determining the amount of 
collateral that corresponds to credit derivative exposures alone is not possible. 
The Company actively monitors open credit risk exposures and manages 
this exposure by using a variety of strategies, including purchased credit 
derivatives, cash collateral or direct holdings of the referenced assets. This 
risk mitigation activity is not captured in the table above.Certain derivative instruments contain provisions that require the Company 
to either post additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding 
liability balances upon the occurrence of a specified credit-risk-related 
event. These events, which are defined by the existing derivative contracts, 
are primarily downgrades in the credit ratings of the Company and its 
affiliates. The fair value (excluding CVA) of all derivative instruments 
with credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a net liability 
position at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 is $36 billion and 
$33 billion, respectively. The Company has posted $32 billion and $28 billion as collateral for this exposure in the normal course of business as of 
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively.Each downgrade would trigger additional collateral or cash settlement requirements for the Company and its affiliates. In the event that each 
legal entity was downgraded a single notch by the three rating agencies 
as of December 31, 2012, the Company would be required to post an 
additional $4.0 billion, as either collateral or settlement of the derivative 
transactions. Additionally, the Company would be required to segregate with third-party custodians collateral previously received from existing 
derivative counterparties in the amount of $1.1 billion upon the single 
notch downgrade, resulting in aggregate cash obligations and collateral 
requirements of approximately $5.1 billion.250Concentrations of credit risk exist when changes in economic, industry or geographic factors similarly affect groups of counterparties whose aggregate 
credit exposure is material in relation to Citigroup™s total credit exposure. 
Although Citigroup™s portfolio of financial instruments is broadly diversified 
along industry, product, and geographic lines, material transactions are 
completed with other financial institutions, particularly in the securities 
trading, derivatives and foreign exchange businesses.In connection with the Company™s efforts to maintain a diversified 
portfolio, the Company limits its exposure to any one geographic region, 
country or individual creditor and monitors this exposure on a continuous 
basis. At December 31, 2012, Citigroup™s most significant concentration of 

credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies. The Company™s 

exposure, which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued 
by the U.S. government and its agencies, amounted to $190.7 billion and $177.9 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Japanese and Mexican governments and their agencies, which are rated investment 
grade by both Moody™s and S&P, were the next largest exposures. The 

Company™s exposure to Japan amounted to $38.7
 billion and $33.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and was composed of investment securities, loans and trading assets. The Company™s exposure to Mexico 

amounted to $33.6 billion and $29.5 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and was composed of investment securities, loans and trading assets.The Company™s exposure to states and municipalities amounted to 
$35.8 billion and $39.5 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, 
and was composed of trading assets, investment securities, derivatives and 

lending activities.ASC 820-10 (formerly SFAS 157) Fair Value Measurement, defines fair 
value, establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value and 
requires disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as 
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability 
in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement 
date. Among other things, the standard requires the Company to maximize 
the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs 
when measuring fair value.Under ASC 820-10, the probability of default of a counterparty is factored into the valuation of derivative positions and includes the impact of 
Citigroup™s own credit risk on derivatives and other liabilities measured at 

fair value.ASC 820-10 specifies a hierarchy of inputs based on whether the inputs are 
observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained 
from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company™s 
market assumptions. These two types of inputs have created the following fair 
value hierarchy:
identical instruments in active markets.
similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and 
significant value drivers are observable in active markets.
more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.This hierarchy requires the use of observable market data when available. The Company considers relevant and observable market prices in its 
valuations where possible. The frequency of transactions, the size of the bid-
ask spread and the amount of adjustment necessary when comparing similar 
transactions are all factors in determining the liquidity of markets and the 
relevance of observed prices in those markets.The Company™s policy with respect to transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy is to recognize transfers into and out of each level as of the 
end of the reporting period.For assets and liabilities carried at fair value, the Company measures such 
value using the procedures set out below, irrespective of whether these assets 
and liabilities are carried at fair value as a result of an election or whether 
they are required to be carried at fair value.When available, the Company generally uses quoted market prices to where a market price is available, the Company will make use of acceptable 
practical expedients (such as matrix pricing) to calculate fair value, in which 
251If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed valuation techniques that use, where possible, current market-based parameters, such as interest rates, currency rates, option 
volatilities, etc. Items valued using such internally generated valuation 
techniques are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver 
even though there may be some significant inputs that are readily observable.The Company may also apply a price-based methodology, which utilizes, 
where available, quoted prices or other market information obtained from 
recent trading activity in positions with the same or similar characteristics to 
the position being valued. The market activity and the amount of the bid-ask 
spread are among the factors considered in determining the liquidity of 
markets and the relevance of observed prices from those markets. If relevant 
and observable prices are available, those valuations may be classified as 
stale, a significant adjustment to the price of a similar security is necessary 
to reflect differences in the terms of the actual security or loan being valued, 
or prices from independent sources are insufficient to corroborate the 
valuation, the ﬁpriceﬂ inputs are considered unobservable and the fair value 
Fair value estimates from internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, to prices obtained from independent vendors or brokers. 
from observed prices to proprietary valuation models.The following section describes the valuation methodologies used by the Company to measure various financial instruments at fair value, 
including an indication of the level in the fair value hierarchy in which each 
instrument is generally classified. Where appropriate, the description includes 

details of the valuation models, the key inputs to those models and any 
significant assumptions.Market valuation adjustmentsvalue hierarchy to ensure that the fair value reflects the liquidity or illiquidity 
of the market. The liquidity reserve may utilize the bid-offer spread for an 
instrument as one of the factors.Counterparty credit-risk adjustments are applied to derivatives, such as over-the-counter uncollateralized derivatives, where the base valuation uses 

market parameters based on the relevant base interest rate curves. Not all 
counterparties have the same credit risk as that implied by the relevant base 
curve, so it is necessary to consider the market view of the credit risk of a 
counterparty in order to estimate the fair value of such an item.Bilateral or ﬁownﬂ credit-risk adjustments are applied to reflect the Company™s own credit risk when valuing derivatives and liabilities measured at fair value. Counterparty and own credit adjustments consider the expected 
future cash flows between Citi and its counterparties under the terms of 
the instrument and the effect of credit risk on the valuation of those cash 
flows, rather than a point-in-time assessment of the current recognized net 
asset or liability. Furthermore, the credit-risk adjustments take into account 

the effect of credit-risk mitigants, such as pledged collateral and any legal 
right of offset (to the extent such offset exists) with a counterparty through 
arrangements such as netting agreements.Generally, the unit of account for a financial instrument is the individual 
financial instrument. The Company applies market valuation adjustments that 

are consistent with the unit of account, which does not include adjustment due 

to the size of the Company™s position, except as follows. ASC 820-10 permits an 

exception, through an accounting policy election, to measure the fair value 

of a portfolio of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of the net 

open risk position when certain criteria are met. Citi has elected to measure 

certain portfolios of financial instruments, such as derivatives, that meet those 

criteria on the basis of the net open risk position. The Company applies market 

valuation adjustments, including adjustments to account for the size of the 

net open risk position, consistent with market participant assumptions and in 

accordance with the unit of account.Price verification procedures and related internal control procedures are 
governed by the Citigroup Pricing and Price Verification Policy and 
Standards, which is jointly owned by Finance and Risk Management. 
Finance has implemented the ICG Securities and Banking Pricing and 
Price Verification Standards and Procedures to facilitate compliance with 
this policy.For fair value measurements of substantially all assets and liabilities held by the Company, individual business units are responsible for valuing the 

trading account assets and liabilities, and Product Control within Finance 
performs independent price verification procedures to evaluate those fair 
value measurements. Product Control is independent of the individual 
business units and reports into the Global Head of Product Control. It has 
the final authority over the independent valuation of financial assets and 
liabilities. Fair value measurements of assets and liabilities are determined 
using various techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash 
flows and internal models, such as option and correlation models.Based on the observability of inputs used, Product Control classifies the a position involves one or more significant inputs that are not directly 
observable, additional price verification procedures are applied. These 
procedures may include reviewing relevant historical data, analyzing profit 
and loss, valuing each component of a structured trade individually, and 

benchmarking, among others.252hierarchy are distributed to senior management in Finance, Risk and the individual business. This inventory is also discussed in Risk Committees and 
in monthly meetings with senior trading management. As deemed necessary, 

reports may go to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors or to the 
full Board of Directors. Whenever a valuation adjustment is needed to bring 
the price of an asset or liability to its exit price, Product Control reports it to 
management along with other price verification results.In addition, the pricing models used in measuring fair value are governed by an independent control framework. Although the models are developed 
and tested by the individual business units, they are independently validated 
Finance with respect to their impact on the price verification procedures. The 
purpose of this independent control framework is to assess model risk arising 
from models™ theoretical soundness, calibration techniques where needed, 
and the appropriateness of the model for a specific product in a defined 
review process as the valuation models. To ensure their continued 

applicability, models are independently reviewed annually. In addition, 
Risk Management approves and maintains a list of products permitted to be 
valued under each approved model for a given business.Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase
No quoted prices exist for such instruments, so fair value is determined using 
a discounted cash-flow technique. Cash flows are estimated based on the 
terms of the contract, taking into account any embedded derivative or other 
features. Expected cash flows are discounted using interest rates appropriate 
to the maturity of the instrument as well as the nature of the underlying 
collateral. Generally, when such instruments are held at fair value, they are 
valuation are readily observable. However, certain long-dated positions are 
Trading account assets and liabilitiesŠtrading securities 
and trading loans
When available, the Company uses quoted market prices to determine the 
fair value hierarchy. Examples include some government securities and 
exchange-traded equity securities.For bonds and secondary market loans traded over the counter, the 
Company generally determines fair value utilizing valuation techniques, 
including discounted cash flows, price-based and internal models, such 
as Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo simulation. Fair value estimates from 
these internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, to prices 
sources and may apply matrix pricing for similar bonds or loans where no 
price is observable. A price-based methodology utilizes, where available, quoted prices or other market information obtained from recent trading 
activity of assets with similar characteristics to the bond or loan being valued. 
The yields used in discounted cash flow models are derived from the same 
price information. Trading securities and loans priced using such methods 

security or loan, a quoted price is stale, a significant adjustment to the price 
of a similar security or loan is necessary to reflect differences in the terms of 
the actual security or loan being valued, or prices from independent sources 
are insufficient to corroborate valuation, a loan or security is generally 
be zero for a security, such as a subprime CDO, that is not receiving any 

principal or interest and is currently written down to zero.Where the Company™s principal market for a portfolio of loans is the securitization market, the Company uses the securitization price to determine 
the fair value of the portfolio. The securitization price is determined from 
the assumed proceeds of a hypothetical securitization in the current market, 
adjusted for transformation costs (i.e., direct costs other than transaction 
costs) and securitization uncertainties such as market conditions and 
liquidity. As a result of the severe reduction in the level of activity in 

certain securitization markets since the second half of 2007, observable 
securitization prices for certain directly comparable portfolios of loans 
have not been readily available. Therefore, such portfolios of loans are 
loan securitization markets, such as commercial real estate loans, pricing 
verification of the hypothetical securitizations has been possible, since these 
markets have remained active. Accordingly, this loan portfolio is classified as 

Trading account assets and liabilitiesŠderivatives
Exchange-traded derivatives are generally measured at fair value using 
value hierarchy.The majority of derivatives entered into by the Company are executed over 
the counter and are valued using internal valuation techniques, as no quoted market prices exist for such instruments. The valuation techniques and inputs 

depend on the type of derivative and the nature of the underlying instrument. 

The principal techniques used to value these instruments are discounted 

cash flows and internal models, including Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo 

simulation. The fair values of derivative contracts reflect cash the Company has 

paid or received (for example, option premiums paid and received).The key inputs depend upon the type of derivative and the nature of the underlying instrument and include interest rate yield curves, foreign-
exchange rates, volatilities and correlation. The Company uses overnight 
indexed swap (OIS) curves as fair value measurement inputs for the 
valuation of certain collateralized interest-rate related derivatives. The 
observability of the significant inputs to the model.253Subprime-related direct exposures in CDOsThe valuation of high-grade and mezzanine asset-backed security (ABS) 
CDO positions utilizes prices based on the underlying assets of each high-
grade and mezzanine ABS CDO. The high-grade and mezzanine positions 
are largely hedged through the ABX and bond short positions. This results in 
closer symmetry in the way these long and short positions are valued by the 
Company. Citigroup uses trader marks to value this portion of the portfolio 
and will do so as long as it remains largely hedged.For most of the lending and structuring direct subprime exposures, fair value is determined utilizing observable transactions where available, 
other market data for similar assets in markets that are not active and other 
internal valuation techniques.InvestmentsThe investments category includes available-for-sale debt and marketable 
equity securities, whose fair value is generally determined by utilizing similar 
procedures described for trading securities above or, in some cases, using 
consensus pricing as the primary source.Also included in investments are nonpublic investments in private equity and real estate entities held by the S&B business. Determining the fair 
value of nonpublic securities involves a significant degree of management 
resources and judgment, as no quoted prices exist and such securities are 
generally very thinly traded. In addition, there may be transfer restrictions 
on private equity securities. The Company uses an established process for 
determining the fair value of such securities, utilizing commonly accepted 
valuation techniques, including comparables analysis. In determining the 
fair value of nonpublic securities, the Company also considers events such 
as a proposed sale of the investee company, initial public offerings, equity 

issuances or other observable transactions. As discussed in Note 15 to the 
to value certain of these investments.value hierarchy.
Short-term borrowings and long-term debtWhere fair value accounting has been elected, the fair value of non-structured liabilities is determined by utilizing internal models using the 
appropriate discount rate for the applicable maturity. Such instruments are 
readily observable.The Company determines the fair value of structured liabilities (where performance is linked to structured interest rates, inflation or currency risks) 
and hybrid financial instruments (where performance is linked to risks 
other than interest rates, inflation or currency risks) using the appropriate 
derivative valuation methodology (described above) given the nature of the 
depending on the observability of significant inputs to the model.Alt-A mortgage securities
The Company classifies its Alt-A mortgage securities as held-to-maturity, 
available-for-sale and trading investments. The securities classified as trading 
and available-for-sale are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value 
reported in current earnings and AOCI, respectively. For these purposes, Citi 
defines Alt-A mortgage securities as non-agency residential mortgage-backed 
securities (RMBS) where (i) the underlying collateral has weighted average FICO scores between 680 and 720 or (ii) for instances where FICO scores are greater than 720, RMBS have 30% or less of the underlying collateral 
composed of full documentation loans.Similar to the valuation methodologies used for other trading securities and trading loans, the Company generally determines the fair values of 
Alt-A mortgage securities utilizing internal valuation techniques. Fair value 
estimates from internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, to 
prices obtained from independent vendors. Consensus data providers compile 
prices from various sources. Where available, the Company may also make 
use of quoted prices for recent trading activity in securities with the same or 
similar characteristics to the security being valued.The valuation techniques used for Alt-A mortgage securities, as with other mortgage exposures, are price-based and discounted cash flows. The primary 
market-derived input is yield. Cash flows are based on current collateral 
performance with prepayment rates and loss projections reflective of current 
economic conditions of housing price change, unemployment rates, interest 
rates, borrower attributes and other market indicators.Alt-A mortgage securities that are valued using these methods are by Alt-A mortgages of lower quality or subordinated tranches in the capital 
exists for such positions, which reduces the reliability of prices available from 
independent sources.254The following tables present for each of the fair value hierarchy levels the Company™s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis at December 31, 2012 and 2011. The Company™s hedging 
to other financial instruments (hedging instruments) that have been 
the fair value hierarchy. The effects of these hedges are presented gross in the 
following table.Fair Value Levels
In millions of dollars at December 31, 2012
Level 1 (1)Level 2 (1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting
 (2)Net balanceAssetsFederal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under 
agreements to resell$Š$198,278$5,043$203,321$(42,732)$160,589
Trading securities
Trading mortgage-backed securities
˜˚˛˚
Š29,8351,32531,160
Š31,160
Š1,6631,8053,468
Š3,468
Š1,3221,1192,441
Š2,441
Total trading mortgage-backed securities
$Š$32,820$4,249$37,069$Š$37,069
U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
$15,416$4,940$Š$20,356$Š$20,356
State and municipalŠ3,6111953,806
Š3,806
Foreign government
57,83131,09731189,239
Š89,239
CorporateŠ33,1942,03035,224
Š35,224
Equity securities54,6402,09426456,998
Š56,998
Asset-backed securitiesŠ8994,4535,352
Š5,352
Other debt securitiesŠ15,9442,32118,265
Š18,265
Total trading securities
$127,887$124,599$13,823$266,309$Š$266,309
Trading account derivatives

$2$901,809$1,710$903,521
1875,71290276,632
2,35914,1931,74118,293
4109,80269510,907

Š50,1094,16654,275
Total trading account derivatives
$2,789$1,051,625$9,214$1,063,628
Gross cash collateral paid61,152Netting agreements and market value adjustments
$(1,070,160)
Total trading account derivatives
$2,789$1,051,625$9,214$1,124,780$(1,070,160)$54,620
InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities˜˚˛˚
$46$45,841$1,458$47,345$Š$47,345
Š7,4722057,677
Š7,677
Š449Š
449Š449
Total investment mortgage-backed securities
$46$53,762$1,663$55,471$Š$55,471
U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
$13,204$78,625$12$91,841$Š$91,841
˙˘˚
255In millions of dollars at December 31, 2012
Level 1 (1)Level 2 (1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting
 (2)Net balanceState and municipal$Š$17,483$849$18,332$Š$18,332
Foreign government 
36,04857,61638394,047
Š94,047
CorporateŠ9,2893859,674
Š9,674
Equity securities4,0371327734,942
Š4,942
Asset-backed securitiesŠ11,9102,22014,130
Š14,130
Other debt securitiesŠŠ258
258Š258
Non-marketable equity securitiesŠ4045,3645,768
Š5,768
Total investments
$53,335$229,221$11,907$294,463$Š$294,463
Loans (3)$Š$356$4,931$5,287$Š$5,287
Mortgage servicing rights
ŠŠ1,9421,942
Š1,942
Nontrading derivatives and other financial assets measured  
on a recurring basis, gross
$Š$15,293$2,452$17,745
Gross cash collateral paid214Netting agreements and market value adjustments
$(4,660)
Nontrading derivatives and other financial assets measured 
on a recurring basis$Š$15,293$2,452$17,959$(4,660)$13,299
Total assets
$184,011$1,619,372$49,312$1,914,061$(1,117,552)$796,509
Total as a percentage of gross assets
 (4)9.9%87.4%2.7%100.0%
LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits$Š$661$786$1,447$Š$1,447
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under 
agreements to repurchaseŠ158,580841159,421(42,732)116,689
Trading account liabilities
Securities sold, not yet purchased
55,1458,28836563,798
63,798Trading account derivatives

1891,1381,529892,668
1081,20990282,121
2,66426,0143,18931,867
31710,3591,46612,142

Š47,7924,50852,300
Total trading account derivatives
$2,992$1,056,512$11,594$1,071,098
Gross cash collateral received46,833Netting agreements and market value adjustments
$(1,066,180)
Total trading account derivatives
$2,992$1,056,512$11,594$1,117,931$(1,066,180)$51,751
Short-term borrowingsŠ706112
818Š818
Long-term debtŠ23,0386,72629,764
Š29,764
Nontrading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured 
on a recurring basis, gross
$Š$2,228$24$2,252
Gross cash collateral received$5,318
Netting agreements and market value adjustments
$(4,660)
Nontrading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured 
on a recurring basis$Š$2,228$24$7,570$(4,660)$2,910
Total liabilities
$58,137$1,250,013$20,448$1,380,749$(1,113,572)$267,177
Total as a percentage of gross liabilities
 (4)4.4%94.1%1.5%100.0%
˝

˝

˝

˝
˝˝
˙˙
˙
˝

˝

256Fair Value Levels
In millions of dollars at December 31, 2011
Level 1Level 2Level 3
Gross inventoryNetting
 (1)Net balanceAssetsFederal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under 
agreements to resell‡™‡†ﬁﬁ€•š„‡„€…•†‡‡‡
Trading securities
Trading mortgage-backed securities
˜˚˛˚
‡™‡‡ﬁŁ†‡‡™‡
™†€⁄•ﬂ
™
™†€…†⁄Ł†ﬁ
™
Total trading mortgage-backed securities
‡™‡‡‡‡™‡
U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
‡‡š€…ﬁ„‡š‡†ﬂ€šﬂﬂ‡™‡†ﬂ€šﬂﬂ
State and municipal™⁄€šŁ„
™⁄€šŁ„
Foreign government
…ﬂ€⁄⁄†
™…ﬂ€⁄⁄†
Corporate™šš€…ﬁŁ
™
Equity securities
™
Asset-backed securities™⁄€ﬁ•†…€•…†
™…€•…†
Other debt securities™
™
Total trading securities
‡ﬂ…€…„ﬁ‡††⁄€ﬁŁ…‡‡‡™‡
Trading account derivatives

‡Ł…‡…⁄⁄€„…š‡†€ﬂ„…‡…⁄…€„ﬁ…
™ﬂš€⁄šŁ…ﬁ†ﬂ„€š†…
†Ł€š…Ł†€Ł†ﬂ
ﬂ⁄ﬁ††€ﬂ„•ﬁŁ⁄†š€…Łš

™ﬂ€š•†
Total trading account derivatives
‡‡ﬂ⁄ﬁ€„„ﬁ‡†„€⁄†š‡
Gross cash collateral paid⁄…€ﬁ†⁄Netting agreements and market value adjustments
‡
Total trading account derivatives
‡‡ﬂ⁄ﬁ€„„ﬁ‡†„€⁄†š‡†€•š„€•„†‡‡
InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities˜˚˛˚
‡⁄ﬂ‡„⁄€•„š‡Ł…ﬂ‡„⁄€…ﬁ†‡™‡„⁄€…ﬁ†
™„€…Ł„ﬁ
™
™™
™
Total investment mortgage-backed securities
‡⁄ﬂ‡‡Łﬁ…‡‡™‡
U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
‡‡‡…⁄‡ﬁ⁄€†šﬁ‡™‡ﬁ⁄€†šﬁ
˙˘˚
257In millions of dollars at December 31, 2011
Level 1Level 2Level 3
Gross inventoryNetting
 (1)Net balanceState and municipal‡™‡‡ŁŁ…‡†„€šﬂﬂ‡™‡†„€šﬂﬂ
Foreign government
šš€⁄„„„„…ﬁ„€⁄†„
™ﬁ„€⁄†„
Corporate™ﬂﬁﬂ
™
Equity securitiesŁ€Łš„ﬂﬁ†€„⁄šﬁ€†ﬁ⁄
™ﬁ€†ﬁ⁄
Asset-backed securities™„€•„†††€••š
™††€••š
Other debt securities™⁄Łš
Łﬁš™Łﬁš
Non-marketable equity securities™⁄†ﬁﬁ€š†ﬁﬁ€ﬁšŁ
™ﬁ€ﬁšŁ
Total investments
‡⁄†€ﬁ…ﬂ‡‡†Ł€…ﬂ…‡‡™‡
Loans (2)‡™‡⁄ﬁš‡‡‡™‡
Mortgage servicing rights
™™
™
Nontrading derivatives and other financial assets measured 
on a recurring basis, gross
‡™‡‡‡†Ł€⁄†⁄
Gross cash collateral paidš•…Netting agreements and market value adjustments
‡
Nontrading derivatives and other financial assets measured 
on a recurring basis‡™‡‡‡‡‡†š€šŁ•
Total assets
‡‡‡‡†€…⁄„€ﬁ…ﬂ‡‡
Total as a percentage of gross assets
 (3)ﬂ˚•Œﬁ…˚„Œš˚ŁŒ†••˚•Œ
LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits‡™‡ﬁﬂ⁄‡„š†‡‡™‡
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under 
agreements to repurchase™†€•Ł††„…€⁄ﬁ⁄
Trading account liabilities
Securities sold, not yet purchased
⁄ﬁ€„⁄Ł†•€ﬂ„†Łﬂ€ﬁ•ﬂ
Łﬂ€ﬁ•ﬂTrading account derivatives

‡š…‡…šﬁ€ﬁšš‡‡…„•€•ﬂ†
™†€š„šﬂ…€šŁš
š€š⁄Łšš€†šﬂ
ﬁ…š††€ﬂ⁄ﬂ†€…ﬂﬂ†„€Łš†

™……€†⁄š…€⁄…š
Total trading account derivatives
‡‡‡‡ﬂŁﬂ€ﬂ⁄•
Gross cash collateral receivedNetting agreements and market value adjustments
‡
Total trading account derivatives
‡‡‡‡‡‡
Short-term borrowings™ﬁ⁄⁄„ﬂﬂ†€š⁄„
™†€š⁄„
Long-term debt™Ł€ﬂ•„
™
Nontrading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured 
on a recurring basis, gross
‡™‡š€⁄⁄ﬂ‡š‡
Gross cash collateral received‡
Netting agreements and market value adjustments
‡
Nontrading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured 
on a recurring basis‡™‡š€⁄⁄ﬂ‡š‡‡‡
Total liabilities
‡‡†€†š•€ﬂŁﬁ‡‡‡‡
Total as a percentage of gross liabilities
 (3)⁄˚†ŒŒ†••˚•Œ
˝
˙˙
˙
˝

˝

258The following tables present the changes in the Level 3 fair value category for 
the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. The Company classifies financial 

instruments as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy when there is reliance on at 

least one significant unobservable input to the valuation model. In addition 

to these unobservable inputs, the valuation models for Level 3 financial 

instruments typically also rely on a number of inputs that are readily observable 

either directly or indirectly. The gains and losses presented below include 
changes in the fair value related to both observable and unobservable inputs.The Company often hedges positions with offsetting positions that are classified in a different level. For example, the gains and losses for assets 
and liabilities in the Level 3 category presented in the tables below do not 
reflect the effect of offsetting losses and gains on hedging instruments that 
have been classified by the Company in the Level 1 and Level 2 categories. In 
addition, the Company hedges items classified in the Level 3 category with 
instruments also classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The effects of 

these hedges are presented gross in the following tables. Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in
Transfers 
into Level 3Transfers 
out of Level 3PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements
Dec. 31, 
2012Unrealized gains (losses) still held (3)In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2011Principal transactionsOther
 (1)(2)AssetsFederal funds sold and securities 
borrowed or purchased under 
agreements to resell˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
$306$Š$540$(444)$Š$Š$Š$(60)$5,043$317
Trading securities
Trading mortgage-backed 
securities

38Š1,294(735)65779(735)(134)1,325(16)
204Š848(499)1,652Š(1,897)(12)1,805(27)
(32)Š327(305)1,056Š(545)Š1,11928
Total trading mortgage-
 backed securities˜
$210$Š$2,469$(1,539)$3,365$79$(3,177)$(146)$4,249$(15)
U.S. Treasury and federal 
agency securities
˜’
$Š$Š$Š$Š$13$Š$(16)$Š$Š$Š
State and municipal˜
$24$Š$19$(18)$61$Š$(143)$Š$195$(2)
Foreign government
25Š89(875)960Š(409)Š3115
Corporate’˛‘˚˙(90)Š464(558)2,622Š(1,942)(1,706)2,030(28)
Equity securities‘˚˚(25)Š121(47)231Š(192)(68)264(5)
Asset-backed securities503Š222(114)6,873Š(7,823)(1,009)4,453(173)
Other debt securities‘˛˝˚’(8)Š1,126(2,089)2,954Š(2,092)(313)2,321376
Total trading securities
˜
$639$Š$4,510$(5,240)$17,079$79$(15,794)$(3,242)$13,823$158
Trading derivatives, net
 (4)˜
$(101)$Š$682$(438)$311$Š$(194)$(805)$181$(298)

440Š(1)25196Š(213)115Š(190)
‡ˆ˛˝’˝…326Š(34)443428Š(657)(217)(1,448)(506)
‡†’˚…145Š(66)5100Š(89)68(771)114

(2,355)Š32(188)117Š(11)335(342)(692)
Total trading derivatives, net
 (4)˜‡˝˝†…
$(1,545)
$Š$613$(153)$1,152$Š$(1,164)$(504)$(2,380)$(1,572)
InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities
˜
$Š$7$894$(3,742)$3,622$Š$Š$(2)$1,458$43
Š6205(6)46Š(54)Š205Š
ƒŠŠŠ(11)11ŠŠŠŠŠ
Total investment mortgage-
 backed securities˜
$Š$13$1,099$(3,759)$3,679$Š$(54)$(2)$1,663$43
U.S. Treasury and federal 
agency securities
˜
$Š$Š$75$(150)$12$Š$Š$Š$12$Š
State and municipalŠ12129(153)412Š(218)Š849(20)
Foreign government
˚˚˝Š20193(297)519Š(387)(112)3831
CorporateŠ(6)68(698)224Š(144)(48)3858
Equity securitiesŠ119ŠŠŠŠ(308)(491)773(34)
Asset-backed securities˚˛˙˚ˆŠ(98)Š(730)930Š(77)(1,846)2,2201
Other debt securitiesˆ‘˙Š(53)ŠŠ310Š(118)(1)258Š
Non-marketable equity 
securitiesŠ453ŠŠ1,266Š(3,373)(1,300)5,364313
Total investments
˜
$Š$460$1,564$(5,787)$7,352$Š$(4,679)$(3,800)$11,907$312
259Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in
Transfers 
into Level 3Transfers 
out of Level 3PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements
Dec. 31, 
2012Unrealized gains (losses) still held (3)In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2011Principal transactionsOther
 (1)(2)Loans˜
$Š$(34)$1,051$(185)$301$930$(251)$(1,563)$4,931$156
Mortgage servicing rights
Š(426)ŠŠ2421(5)(619)1,942(427)
Other financial assets measured on a recurring basisŠ36621(35)41,700(50)(1,799)2,452101
LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits˜˚’ˆ
$Š$(141)$213$(36)$Š$268$Š$(231)$786$(414)
Federal funds purchased and 
securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase(64)ŠŠ(14)ŠŠ(179)(91)84143
Trading account liabilities
˚ˆ‘
(1)Š294(47)ŠŠ216(511)365(42)
Short-term borrowings˚††(108)Š47(20)Š268Š(790)112(57)
Long-term debt981192,548(2,694)Š2,480Š(2,295)6,726(688)
Other financial liabilities measured on a recurring basis’Š(31)2(2)(4)6Š(12)24(13)
‡ˆ…

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
˛
Realized gains (losses) from sales of investments
‡‘…Other revenue
‡’…
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)


‡˚…‚
˘
260Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in
Transfers 
into and/or out of Level 3Dec. 31, 
2011Unrealized gains (losses) still heldIn millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2010Principal transactionsOther
(1)(2)PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements
(3)AssetsFederal funds sold and securities 
borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell˜˚˛†ˆˆ˜†˙˜ƒ˜‡’˙˙…˜ƒ˜ƒ˜ƒ˜ƒ˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜
Trading securities
Trading mortgage-backed securities

˜˜˜ƒ˜˜˜˝’˜˜‡ˆ˚ˆ…˜˜‡ˆ˙˙…
ƒƒ‡˚˛†˙ˆ…
’’ƒƒ
Total trading mortgage-backed 
securities˜˜ˆˆ†˜ƒ˜˜˜˝’˜˜˜˜‡’†…
U.S. Treasury and federal 
agencies securities˜˝‘˜†˜ƒ˜˜˜ƒ˜‡˚ˆ…˜ƒ˜’˜ƒ
State and municipal˜˜˜ƒ˜ˆ˙‘˜˜ƒ˜‡ˆ˛‘˚’…˜‡ˆ˙…˜˜
Foreign government
‡’’…ƒ‡‘˚’…ƒ‡˝†˝…‡‘‘…
Corporateƒ’˛‘˝‘ƒ’˛‘˚˙
Equity securities‡‘˙‘…ƒˆ†ˆƒƒ‘˚˚‡ˆ˚’…
Asset-backed securitiesƒƒ‡˝˝†…
Other debt securities‡ˆ˝†…ƒ
‡ˆ˝…ƒ‡ˆ˛˝˙˙…‡˚…‘˛˝˚’
Total trading securities
˜˜˜ƒ˜˜˜˝’˜‡‘˙˛‘˚˝…˜˜˜
Trading derivatives, net
 (4)
˜‡˝’˙…˜‡‘˚‘…˜ƒ˜˜ˆˆˆ˜ƒ˜‡‘ˆ…˜˜˜
‡ˆ’˚…ƒ
ˆˆƒ‡’…‡ˆ˙˙…
˚˝ˆƒ
ƒ‡‘˚‘…‡ˆ˛˝’˝…‡ˆ˛ˆ’†…
‡ˆ˛˙‘’…ƒ
‘ƒ‡ˆ˙˚…‡†’˚…

ƒƒ‡ˆ…
Total trading derivatives, net
 (4)˜‡ˆ˛˚’‘…˜ˆ˛˙˚ˆ˜ƒ˜˜˚†˚˜ƒ˜‡’˝ˆ…˜‡‘˛˙˝˙…˜‡˝˝†…˜
InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities
˜‘‘˜ƒ˜‡‘‘…˜˜‘˝˙˜ƒ˜‡˝…˜ƒ˜˜
ƒ‡‘…‡ˆ˙†…˝ƒ‡ˆ…ƒ
ƒ‡˚…˚‘ƒƒƒƒ
Total investment mortgage-backed 
securities˜˜ƒ˜˜˜’ˆ†˜ƒ˜‡ˆˆ’…˜‡ˆ…˜˜
U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
securities˜ˆ˝˜ƒ˜ƒ˜˜ƒ˜ƒ˜‡‘…˜ƒ˜˜ƒ
State and municipalƒ‡ˆ˙…’‘˚ƒ‡†‘…ƒ‡‘˙…
Foreign government
ƒˆ’
‡‘ˆ…ƒ˚˚˝
Corporateƒˆ††˝’‘ƒ
Equity securitiesƒ‡’ˆ…ƒƒ‡˚˚†…ƒ
Asset-backed securitiesƒ˚’
ƒ‡ˆ˛ˆ‘˝…˚˛˙˚ˆ
Other debt securities˝‘˝ƒˆ‘ˆƒˆ‘˙
‡‘…Non-marketable equity securitiesƒƒ
Total investments
˜˜ƒ˜˜˜˜ƒ˜‡’˛˙˙ˆ…˜‡˚˛‘’ˆ…˜˜
261Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in
Transfers 
into and/or out of Level 3Dec. 31, 
2011Unrealized gains (losses) still heldIn millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2010Principal transactionsOther
(1)(2)PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements
(3)Loans˜’˛‘ˆ’˜ƒ˜‡’˙†…˜˜˜‘˛˙˙‘˜˜˜˜
Mortgage servicing rights
ƒƒƒ‡‘ˆ‘…
Other financial assets measured on a recurring basis˜˜ƒ˜ˆ˙†˜‡†˙…˜˜˜‡ˆ˝‘…˜‡˝‘ˆ…˜˜ˆˆ‘
LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits˜‘˝˝˜ƒ˜˜‡˝‘…˜ƒ˜˜ƒ˜‡ˆ’…˜˚’ˆ˜
Federal funds purchased and securities 
loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase‡‘‘…ƒ
ƒƒ‡ˆˆ˝…
Trading account liabilities

ƒƒƒ˚ˆ’˚ˆ‘˚‘
Short-term borrowingsˆ†˙ƒ‡‘‘˙…ƒƒ‡˚˚˚…˚††’†
Long-term debtƒƒ‡‘˛ˆ˚˙…
Other financial liabilities measured on a recurring basisˆ†ƒ‡ˆ†…
˝ˆˆ’‡ˆ…’
‡’…‡ˆ…

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

Realized gains (losses) from sales of investments
‡‘…Other revenue
‡’…
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)


‡˚…‚
˘
The following were the significant Level 3 transfers for the period 
December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012:Transfers of U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed mortgage-backed securities in Trading account assets of $1.3 billion from Level 2 
to Level 3 primarily due to a decrease in observability of prices.Transfers of other debt trading securities from Level 2 to Level 3 of 
$1.1 billion, the majority of which consisted of trading loans for which there were a reduced number of market quotations.Transfers of other debt trading securities from Level 3 to Level 2 of 
$2.1 billion included $1.0 billion transferred to Level 2 primarily as a result of an increased volume of market quotations, and a majority of 
the remaining amount relates to positions that were reclassified as Level 
3 positions within Loans to conform with the balance sheet presentation. The reclassification has also been reflected as transfers into Level 3 within 
loans in the roll-forward table above.Transfers of $3.7 billion of U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed 
mortgage-backed securities in Investments from Level 3 to Level 2 
consisting mainly of securities that were newly issued during the year. At 
issuance, these securities had limited trading activity and were previously 
classified as Level 3. As trading activity in these securities increased and 
pricing became observable, these positions were transferred to Level 2.Transfers of Long-term debt in the amounts of $2.5 billion from Level 2 to Level 3 and $2.7 billion from Level 3 to Level 2 were the result of 
Citi™s conforming and refining the application of the fair value level 
classification methodologies to certain structured debt instruments 
containing embedded derivatives, as well as certain underlying market 
inputs becoming less or more observable.In addition, 2012 included sales of non-marketable equity securities classified as Investments of $2.8 billion relating to the sale of EMI Music and EMI Music Publishing.The following were the significant Level 3 transfers for the period December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011:Transfers of corporate debt trading securities of $1.5 billion from Level 2 to Level 3 due primarily to less price transparency for the securities.Transfers of Loans from Level 2 to Level 3 of $0.4 billion, due to a lack of 
observable prices for certain loans.In addition to the Level 3 transfers, the Level 3 roll-forward table above for the period December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 included:The reclassification of $4.3 billion of securities from Investments held-to-maturity to Trading account assets. These reclassifications have been 

included in purchases in the Level 3 roll-forward table above. The Level 3 

assets reclassified, and subsequently sold, included $2.8 billion of trading 

mortgage-backed securities (of which $1.5 billion were Alt-A, $1.0 billion 

were prime, $0.2 billion were subprime and $0.1 billion were commercial), 

$0.9 billion of state and municipal debt securities, $0.3 billion of corporate 

debt securities and $0.2 billion of asset-backed securities.Purchases of non-marketable equity securities classified as Investments included approximately $2.8 billion relating to Citi™s acquisition of the 
share capital of Maltby Acquisitions Limited, the holding company that 
controls EMI Group Ltd. (which were sold in 2012).262The Company™s Level 3 inventory consists of both cash securities and 
derivatives of varying complexities. The valuation methodologies applied 
to measure the fair value of these positions include discounted cash 
flow analyses, internal models and comparative analysis. A position is 
classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy when at least one input 
is unobservable and is considered significant to its valuation. The specific 
reason an input is deemed unobservable varies. For example, at least one 
significant input to the pricing model is not observable in the market, at least 
one significant input has been adjusted to make it more representative of the 
position being valued, or the price quote available does not reflect sufficient 
trading activities.The following table presents the valuation techniques covering the majority of Level 3 inventory and the most significant unobservable inputs 
used in Level 3 fair value measurements as of December 31, 2012. Differences 
between this table and amounts presented in the Level 3 Fair Value 

Rollforward table represent individually immaterial items that have been 
measured using a variety of valuation techniques other than those listed.263Fair Value
(in millions) (1)MethodologyInput
Low (2)(3)High (2)(3)AssetsFederal funds sold and securities  
borrowed or purchased under  agreements to resell$4,786 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ

Trading and investment securities  
Mortgage-backed securities $4,402

1,148

State and municipal, foreign  
government, corporate and other  

debt securities$4,416
1,231˜˚˛˝˙ˆ

787
 Equity securities$792 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ

147

Asset-backed securities$4,253

1,775
561˜˚˛˝˙ˆ

€
‡€…—–

 Non-marketable equity$2,768
›

1,803

709˜˚˛˝˙ˆ

Derivatives Œ Gross
 (4)
$3,202 





$1,542 



$4,669 




$2,160




$4,777 


3,886



˙‡†–$2,000


461
Loans $2,447

1,423

888Mortgage servicing rights
$1,858 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ


264LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits$785



Federal funds purchased and securities loaned 
or sold under agreements to repurchase$841

Trading account liabilities

$265


75Short-term borrowings and long-term debt$5,067


1,112
649


˙

˙˙

‡†–˙

˙The impact of key unobservable inputs on the Level 3 fair value 
measurements may not be independent of one another. In addition, the 
amount and direction of the impact on a fair value measurement for a given 
change in an unobservable input depends on the nature of the instrument as 
well as whether the Company holds the instrument as an asset or a liability. 
For certain instruments, the pricing hedging and risk management are 
sensitive to the correlation between various inputs rather than on the analysis 
and aggregation of the individual inputs.The following section describes the sensitivities and interrelationships of the most significant unobservable inputs used by the Company in Level 3 fair 
value measurements.CorrelationCorrelation is a measure of the co-movement between two or more variables. 
A variety of correlation-related assumptions are required for a wide range of 
instruments, including equity and credit baskets, foreign-exchange options, 
CDOs backed by loans or bonds, mortgages, subprime mortgages and many 
other instruments. For almost all of these instruments, correlations are not 
observable in the market and must be estimated using historical information. 

Estimating correlation can be especially difficult where it may vary over time. 
Extracting correlation information from market data requires significant 
assumptions regarding the informational efficiency of the market (for 
example, swaption markets). Changes in correlation levels can have a major 
impact, favorable or unfavorable, on the value of an instrument, depending 
on its nature. A change in the default correlation of the fair value of the 
underlying bonds comprising a CDO structure would affect the fair value of 
the senior tranche. For example, an increase in the default correlation of the 
underlying bonds would reduce the fair value of the senior tranche, because highly correlated instruments produce larger losses in the event of default 
and a part of these losses would become attributable to the senior tranche. 
That same change in default correlation would have a different impact on 
junior tranches of the same structure.Volatility represents the speed and severity of market price changes and is 
a key factor in pricing options. Typically, instruments can become more 
expensive if volatility increases. For example, as an index becomes more 
volatile, the cost to Citi of maintaining a given level of exposure increases 
because more frequent rebalancing of the portfolio is required. Volatility 
generally depends on the tenor of the underlying instrument and the strike 
price or level defined in the contract. Volatilities for certain combinations 
of tenor and strike are not observable. The general relationship between 
changes in the value of a portfolio to changes in volatility also depends on changes in interest rates and the level of the underlying index.Generally, long option positions (assets) benefit from increases in volatility, whereas short option positions (liabilities) will suffer losses. Some instruments are 
more sensitive to changes in volatility than others. For example, an at-the-
money option would experience a larger percentage change in its fair value 
than a deep-in-the-money option. In addition, the fair value of an option 
with more than one underlying security (for example, an option on a basket 
of bonds) depends on the volatility of the individual underlying securities as 
well as their correlations.YieldAdjusted yield is generally used to discount the projected future principal and 
interest cash flows on instruments, such as asset-backed securities. Adjusted 
yield is impacted by changes in the interest rate environment and relevant 
credit spreads.265Sometimes, the yield of an instrument is not observable in the market and must be estimated from historical data or from yields of similar securities. This estimated yield may need to be adjusted to capture the characteristics 
of the security being valued. In other situations, the estimated yield may not 
represent sufficient market liquidity and must be adjusted as well. Whenever 
the amount of the adjustment is significant to the value of the security, the 

fair value measurement is classified as Level 3.PrepaymentVoluntary unscheduled payments (prepayments) change the future cash 
flows for the investor and thereby change the fair value of the security. The 
effect of prepayments is more pronounced for residential mortgage-backed 
securities. An increase in prepaymentŠin speed or magnitudeŠgenerally 
creates losses for the holder of these securities. Prepayment is generally 
negatively correlated with delinquency and interest rate. A combination 
of low prepayment and high delinquencies amplify each input™s negative 
impact on mortgage securities™ valuation. As prepayment speeds change, the 
weighted average life of the security changes, which impacts the valuation 
either positively or negatively, depending upon the nature of the security and 
the direction of the change in the weighted average life.RecoveryRecovery is the proportion of the total outstanding balance of a bond or loan 
that is expected to be collected in a liquidation scenario. For many credit 
securities (such as asset-backed securities), there is no directly observable 
market input for recovery, but indications of recovery levels are available 
from pricing services. The assumed recovery of a security may differ from 
its actual recovery that will be observable in the future. The recovery rate 
impacts the valuation of credit securities. Generally, an increase in the 
recovery rate assumption increases the fair value of the security. An increase 
in loss severity, the inverse of the recovery rate, reduces the amount of 
principal available for distribution and, as a result, decreases the fair value of 
the security.Credit SpreadCredit spread is a component of the security representing its credit quality. 
Credit spread reflects the market perception of changes in prepayment, 
delinquency and recovery rates, therefore capturing the impact of other variables on the fair value. Changes in credit spread affect the fair value of securities differently depending on the characteristics and maturity profile of the security. For example, credit spread is a more significant driver of the fair 
value measurement of a high yield bond as compared to an investment grade 
bond. Generally, the credit spread for an investment grade bond is also more 
observable and less volatile than its high yield counterpart.
The following section describes the ranges of the most significant 
unobservable inputs used by the Company in Level 3 fair value 
measurements. The level of aggregation and the diversity of instruments held 
by the Company lead to a wide range of unobservable inputs that may not be 
evenly distributed across the Level 3 inventory.Correlation There are many different types of correlation inputs, including credit 
correlation, cross-asset correlation (such as equity-interest rate correlation), 
and same-asset correlation (such as interest rate-interest rate correlation). 
Correlation inputs are generally used to value hybrid and exotic instruments. 
Generally, same-asset correlation inputs have a narrower range than cross-
asset correlation inputs. However, due to the complex and unique nature 
of these instruments, the ranges for correlation inputs can vary widely 
across portfolios.Volatility Similar to correlation, asset-specific volatility inputs vary widely by asset type. 
For example, ranges for foreign exchange volatility are generally lower and 
narrower than equity volatility. Equity volatilities are wider due to the nature 
of the equities market and the terms of certain exotic instruments. For most 
instruments, the interest rate volatility input is on the lower end of the range; 
however, for certain structured or exotic instruments (such as market-linked 
deposits or exotic interest rate derivatives), the range is much wider.YieldRanges for the yield inputs vary significantly depending upon the type of 
security. For example, securities that typically have lower yields, such as 
municipal bonds, will fall on the lower end of the range, while more illiquid 
securities or securities with lower credit quality, such as certain residual 
tranche asset-backed securities, will have much higher yield inputs.Credit SpreadCredit spread is relevant primarily for fixed income and credit instruments; 
however, the ranges for the credit spread input can vary across instruments. 
For example, certain fixed income instruments, such as certificates of deposit, 
typically have lower credit spreads, whereas certain derivative instruments 
with high-risk counterparties are typically subject to higher credit spreads 
when they are uncollateralized or have a longer tenor. Other instruments, 
such as credit default swaps, also have credit spreads that vary with the 
attributes of the underlying obligor. Stronger companies have tighter credit 
spreads, and weaker companies have wider credit spreads. 266PriceThe price input is a significant unobservable input for certain fixed income 
instruments. For these instruments, the price input is expressed as a 
percentage of the notional amount, with a price of $100 meaning that the 
instrument is valued at par. For most of these instruments, the price varies 
between zero to $100, or slightly above $100. Relatively illiquid assets that 
have experienced significant losses since issuance, such as certain asset-
backed securities, are at the lower end of the range, whereas most investment 
grade corporate bonds will fall in the middle to the higher end of the range. 
For certain structured debt instruments with embedded derivatives, the price 
input may be above $100 to reflect the embedded features of the instrument 
(for example, a step-up coupon or a conversion option). For the following 
classes of fixed income instruments, the weighted average price input below 
provides insight regarding the central tendencies of the ranges of this input 
reported for each instrument class as of December 31, 2012:
˙ˆ˙˙
The price input is also a significant unobservable input for certain equity securities; however, the range of price inputs varies depending on the nature 

of the position, the number of shares outstanding and other factors. Because 
of these factors, the weighted average price input for equity securities does 
not provide insight regarding the central tendencies of the ranges for equity 
securities, as equity prices are generally independent of one another and are 
not subject to a common measurement scale (for example, the zero to $100 
range applicable to debt instruments).Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring 
basis and therefore are not included in the tables above. These include assets 
measured at cost that have been written down to fair value during the periods 
as a result of an impairment. In addition, these assets include loans held-
for-sale and other real estate owned that are measured at the lower of cost or 
market (LOCOM).The following table presents the carrying amounts of all assets that were still held as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and for which a nonrecurring 
fair value measurement was recorded during the year then ended:In millions of dollarsFair valueLevel 2Level 3
December 31, 2012

$2,647$1,159$1,488

20122179
5,7325,160572
4,7254,725Š
Total assets at fair value on a  
nonrecurring basis$13,305$11,066$2,239
˙

˙


In millions of dollarsFair valueLevel 2Level 3
December 31, 2011






Total assets at fair value on a  
nonrecurring basis
˙

The fair value of loans-held-for-sale is determined where possible using 
quoted secondary-market prices. If no such quoted price exists, the fair value of a loan is determined using quoted prices for a similar asset or assets, 
adjusted for the specific attributes of that loan. Fair value for the other real 
estate owned is based on appraisals. For loans whose carrying amount is 
based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, the fair values depend 
on the type of collateral. Fair value of the collateral is typically estimated 
based on quoted market prices if available, appraisals or other internal 
valuation techniques.Where the fair value of the related collateral is based on an unadjusted appraised value, the loan is generally classified as Level 2. Where significant 
adjustments are made to the appraised value, the loan is classified as Level 3. 
Additionally, for corporate loans, appraisals of the collateral are often based 

on sales of similar assets; however, because the prices of similar assets require 

significant adjustments to reflect the unique features of the underlying 
collateral, these fair value measurements are generally classified as Level 3.267The following table presents the valuation techniques covering the majority of Level 3 nonrecurring fair value measurements and the most significant unobservable inputs used in those measurements as of December 31, 2012:Fair Value 
(1)(in millions)MethodologyInput
LowHighLoans held-for-sale
$747 


485
174
Other real estate owned 165

Loans (3)351
111


˙

˙
˙

The following table presents total nonrecurring fair value measurements 
for the period, included in earnings, attributable to the change in fair value 
relating to assets that are still held at December 31, 2012 and 2011:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012

$ (19)

(29)(1,489)(3,340)Total nonrecurring fair value gains (losses)
$(4,877)
˙

˙



In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2011



–Total nonrecurring fair value gains (losses)

˙


The table below presents the carrying value and fair value of Citigroup™s 
financial instruments which are not carried at fair value. The table below 
therefore excludes items measured at fair value on a recurring basis 
presented in the tables above.The disclosure also excludes leases, affiliate investments, pension and benefit obligations and insurance policy claim reserves. In addition, 
contract-holder fund amounts exclude certain insurance contracts. Also, as 
required, the disclosure excludes the effect of taxes, any premium or discount 
that could result from offering for sale at one time the entire holdings of a 
particular instrument, excess fair value associated with deposits with no fixed 
maturity, and other expenses that would be incurred in a market transaction. 

In addition, the table excludes the values of non-financial assets and 
liabilities, as well as a wide range of franchise, relationship and intangible 
values, which are integral to a full assessment of Citigroup™s financial 

position and the value of its net assets.The fair value represents management™s best estimates based on a 
range of methodologies and assumptions. The carrying value of short-term 
financial instruments not accounted for at fair value, as well as receivables 
and payables arising in the ordinary course of business, approximates fair 
value because of the relatively short period of time between their origination 
and expected realization. Quoted market prices are used when available 
for investments and for liabilities, such as long-term debt not carried 
at fair value. For loans not accounted for at fair value, cash flows are 
discounted at quoted secondary market rates or estimated market rates if 
available. Otherwise, sales of comparable loan portfolios or current market 
origination rates for loans with similar terms and risk characteristics are 
used. Expected credit losses are either embedded in the estimated future 
cash flows or incorporated as an adjustment to the discount rate used. The 
value of collateral is also considered. For liabilities such as long-term debt 
not accounted for at fair value and without quoted market prices, market 
borrowing rates of interest are used to discount contractual cash flows.268December 31, 2012
Estimated fair value
In billions of dollarsCarrying valueEstimated fair valueLevel 1Level 2Level 3
Assets$17.9
$18.4$3.0$14.3$1.1

100.7100.7Š94.85.9
621.9612.2Š4.2608.0
192.8192.811.4128.353.1
Liabilities
$929.1
$927.4$Š$765.5$161.9

94.594.5Š94.40.1
‡†–209.7215.3Š177.038.3

139.0139.0Š31.1107.9
December 31, 2011
In billions of dollarsCarrying 
value
Estimated fair value
Assets





Liabilities



‡†–


˙
Allowance for loan losses


˙
˙

Other assets˙ˆ

‡†–˙
˙

Other liabilities
˙ˆ

Fair values vary from period to period based on changes in a wide range of factors, including interest rates, credit quality and market perceptions 
of value, and as existing assets and liabilities run off and new transactions 
are entered into. The estimated fair values of loans reflect changes in credit 
status since the loans were made, changes in interest rates in the case of 
fixed-rate loans, and premium values at origination of certain loans. The 
carrying values (reduced by the Allowance for loan losses) exceeded the 
estimated fair values of Citigroup™s loans, in aggregate, by $9.7 billion and 

by $10.6 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. 

At December 31, 2012, the carrying values, net of allowances, exceeded the 
estimated fair values by $7.4 billion and $2.3 billion for Consumer loans and 
Corporate loans, respectively.
The estimated fair values of the Company™s corporate unfunded lending 
commitments at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 were liabilities 
of $4.9 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively, which are substantially 

fair valued at Level 3. The Company does not estimate the fair values of 
consumer unfunded lending commitments, which are generally cancelable 
by providing notice to the borrower.
269The Company may elect to report most financial instruments and certain 
other items at fair value on an instrument-by-instrument basis with changes 

in fair value reported in earnings. The election is made upon the acquisition 

of an eligible financial asset, financial liability or firm commitment or when 

certain specified reconsideration events occur. The fair value election may not 

be revoked once an election is made. The changes in fair value are recorded 

in current earnings. Additional discussion regarding the applicable areas in 

which fair value elections were made is presented in Note 25 to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements.All servicing rights are recognized initially at fair value. The Company has elected fair value accounting for its mortgage servicing rights. See Note 22 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions regarding the 
accounting and reporting of MSRs.The following table presents, as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the fair value of those positions selected for fair value accounting, as well as the 
changes in fair value gains and losses for the years ended December 31, 2012 
and 2011:Fair value at 
December 31,Changes in fair value gains  
(losses) for the years  
ended December 31,In millions of dollars20122012Assets

$160,589

$(409)

”
17,206838443(50)
4,056771,231(104)”
$5,287

$(27)

łŸﬁ˛$1,942

$(427)


6,87935022†š3”
$8,843

$(74)

Total assets
$192,368

$278

Liabilities$1,447

$(218)



116,68966”
1,461(143)818(2)29,764(2,225)Total liabilities
$150,179

$(2,522)

˙
˙

270Own debt valuation adjustments are recognized on Citi™s debt liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected using Citi™s credit spreads 
observed in the bond market. The fair value of debt liabilities for which the 
fair value option is elected (other than non-recourse and similar liabilities) 
is impacted by the narrowing or widening of the Company™s credit spreads. 
The estimated change in the fair value of these debt liabilities due to such 
changes in the Company™s own credit risk (or instrument-specific credit 
risk) was a loss of $2,009 million and a gain of $1,774 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Changes in fair value 
resulting from changes in instrument-specific credit risk were estimated by 
incorporating the Company™s current credit spreads observable in the bond 
market into the relevant valuation technique used to value each liability as 
described above.

Selected portfolios of securities purchased under 
agreements to resell, securities borrowed, securities sold 
under agreements to repurchase, securities loaned and 
certain non-collateralized short-term borrowings
The Company elected the fair value option for certain portfolios of fixed-
income securities purchased under agreements to resell and fixed-income 
securities sold under agreements to repurchase, securities borrowed, securities 
loaned (and certain non-collateralized short-term borrowings) on broker-
dealer entities in the United States, United Kingdom and Japan. In each case, 
the election was made because the related interest-rate risk is managed on a 
portfolio basis, primarily with derivative instruments that are accounted for 
at fair value through earnings.Changes in fair value for transactions in these portfolios are recorded in Principal transactions. The related interest revenue and interest expense are 
measured based on the contractual rates specified in the transactions and 
are reported as interest revenue and expense in the Consolidated Statement 
of Income.Selected letters of credit and revolving loans hedged by 
credit default swaps or participation notes
The Company has elected the fair value option for certain letters of credit 
that are hedged with derivative instruments or participation notes. Citigroup 
elected the fair value option for these transactions because the risk is 
managed on a fair value basis and mitigates accounting mismatches.There was no notional amount of these unfunded letters of credit at December 31, 2012 and $0.6 billion at December 31, 2011. The amount funded was insignificant with no amounts 90 days or more past due or on 
non-accrual status at December 31, 2012 and 2011.These items have been classified in Trading account assets
 or Trading 
account liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Changes in fair value 
of these items are classified in Principal transactions in the Company™s 

Consolidated Statement of Income.Certain loans and other credit productsCitigroup has elected the fair value option for certain originated and 
purchased loans, including certain unfunded loan products, such as 
guarantees and letters of credit, executed by Citigroup™s lending and trading 
businesses. None of these credit products are highly leveraged financing 
commitments. Significant groups of transactions include loans and 
unfunded loan products that are expected to be either sold or securitized in 
the near term, or transactions where the economic risks are hedged with 
derivative instruments such as purchased credit default swaps or total return 
swaps where the Company pays the total return on the underlying loans to a 
third party. Citigroup has elected the fair value option to mitigate accounting 
mismatches in cases where hedge accounting is complex and to achieve 
operational simplifications. Fair value was not elected for most lending 
transactions across the Company, including where management objectives 
would not be met.Certain investments in unallocated precious metalsCitigroup invests in unallocated precious metals accounts (gold, silver, 
platinum and palladium) as part of its commodity trading business or to 
economically hedge certain exposures from issuing structured liabilities. 
Under ASC 815, the investment is bifurcated into a debt host contract and 
a commodity forward derivative instrument. Citigroup elects the fair value 
option for the debt host contract, and reports the debt host contract within 
Trading account assets on the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The 
total carrying amount of debt host contracts across unallocated precious 
metals accounts at December 31, 2012 was approximately $5.5 billion. The amounts are expected to fluctuate based on trading activity in the 
future periods.271The following table provides information about certain credit products carried at fair value at December 31, 2012 and 2011:December 31, 2012

In millions of dollarsTrading assetsLoans
”

$11,658$3,893


31(132)


104Š
ı


85Š
ı
In addition to the amounts reported above, $1,891 million and $648 million of unfunded loan commitments related to certain credit products selected for fair value accounting were outstanding as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.Changes in fair value of funded and unfunded credit products are classified in Principal transactions in the Company™s Consolidated 

Statement of Income. Related interest revenue is measured based on the 
contractual interest rates and reported as Interest revenue on Trading 

account assets or loan interest depending on the balance sheet classifications 
of the credit products. The changes in fair value for the years ended 
December 31, 2012 and 2011 due to instrument-specific credit risk totaled to 
a gain of $39 million and $53 million, respectively.Certain investments in private equity and real estate 
ventures and certain equity method investments
Citigroup invests in private equity and real estate ventures for the purpose 
of earning investment returns and for capital appreciation. The Company 
has elected the fair value option for certain of these ventures, because such 
investments are considered similar to many private equity or hedge fund 
activities in Citi™s investment companies, which are reported at fair value. 
The fair value option brings consistency in the accounting and evaluation of 
these investments. All investments (debt and equity) in such private equity 
and real estate entities are accounted for at fair value. These investments are 
classified as Investments on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet.Citigroup also holds various non-strategic investments in leveraged buyout funds and other hedge funds for which the Company elected fair 
value accounting to reduce operational and accounting complexity. Since 

the funds account for all of their underlying assets at fair value, the impact 
of applying the equity method to Citigroup™s investment in these funds was 

equivalent to fair value accounting. These investments are classified as Other assets on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Changes in the fair values of these investments are classified in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income.
Certain mortgage loans (HFS)
Citigroup has elected the fair value option for certain purchased and 
originated prime fixed-rate and conforming adjustable-rate first mortgage 
loans HFS. These loans are intended for sale or securitization and are hedged 
with derivative instruments. The Company has elected the fair value option 
to mitigate accounting mismatches in cases where hedge accounting is 
complex and to achieve operational simplifications.272The following table provides information about certain mortgage loans HFS carried at fair value at December 31, 2012 and 2011:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012


$6,879
390
Šı
ŠıThe changes in fair values of these mortgage loans are reported in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income. There was 
no change in fair value during the year ended December 31, 2012 due to 
instrument-specific credit risk. The change in fair value during the year 
ended December 31, 2011 due to instrument-specific credit risk resulted in a 
loss of $0.1 million. Related interest income continues to be measured based on the contractual interest rates and reported as such in the Consolidated 
Statement of Income.Certain consolidated VIEsThe Company has elected the fair value option for all qualified assets 
and liabilities of certain VIEs that were consolidated upon the adoption 
of SFAS 167 on January 1, 2010, including certain private label mortgage 
securitizations, mutual fund deferred sales commissions and collateralized 
loan obligation VIEs. The Company elected the fair value option for these 
VIEs, as the Company believes this method better reflects the economic risks, 
since substantially all of the Company™s retained interests in these entities are 
carried at fair value.With respect to the consolidated mortgage VIEs, the Company determined the fair value for the mortgage loans and long-term debt utilizing internal 
valuation techniques. The fair value of the long-term debt measured using 
internal valuation techniques is verified, where possible, to prices obtained 
from independent vendors. Vendors compile prices from various sources and may apply matrix pricing for similar securities when no price is observable. 
Security pricing associated with long-term debt that is valued using 
observable inputs is classified as Level 2, and debt that is valued using one or 
more significant unobservable inputs is classified as Level 3. The fair value 
of mortgage loans of each VIE is derived from the security pricing. When 
substantially all of the long-term debt of a VIE is valued using Level 2 inputs, 
the corresponding mortgage loans are classified as Level 2. Otherwise, the 
mortgage loans of a VIE are classified as Level 3.With respect to the consolidated mortgage VIEs for which the fair value option was elected, the mortgage loans are classified as Loans on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The changes in fair value of 

the loans are reported as Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated 

Statement of Income. Related interest revenue is measured based on the 
contractual interest rates and reported as Interest revenue in the Company™s 

Consolidated Statement of Income. Information about these mortgage loans 
is included in the table below. The change in fair value of these loans due to 

instrument-specific credit risk was a loss of $107 million and $275 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.The debt issued by these consolidated VIEs is classified as long-term debt on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The changes in fair value 

for the majority of these liabilities are reported in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income. Related interest expense is 

measured based on the contractual interest rates and reported as such in 
the Consolidated Statement of Income. The aggregate unpaid principal 
balance of long-term debt of these consolidated VIEs exceeded the aggregate 
fair value by $869 million and $984 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.273The following table provides information about Corporate and Consumer loans of consolidated VIEs carried at fair value at December 31, 2012 and 2011:December 31, 2012

In millions of dollarsCorporate loansConsumer loans

$157
$1,191



347293
34123

36111Certain structured liabilitiesThe Company has elected the fair value option for certain structured 
liabilities whose performance is linked to structured interest rates, inflation, 
currency, equity, referenced credit or commodity risks (structured liabilities). 
The Company elected the fair value option, because these exposures are 
considered to be trading-related positions and, therefore, are managed on a 
fair value basis. These positions will continue to be classified as debt, deposits 
or derivatives (Trading account liabilities) on the Company™s Consolidated 
Balance Sheet according to their legal form.The change in fair value for these structured liabilities is reported in Principal transactions in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income. 

Changes in fair value for these structured liabilities include an economic 
component for accrued interest, which is included in the change in fair value 
reported in Principal transactions.Certain non-structured liabilities
The Company has elected the fair value option for certain non-structured 
liabilities with fixed and floating interest rates (non-structured liabilities). 
The Company has elected the fair value option where the interest-rate risk 
of such liabilities is economically hedged with derivative contracts or the 
proceeds are used to purchase financial assets that will also be accounted 
for at fair value through earnings. The election has been made to mitigate 
accounting mismatches and to achieve operational simplifications. These 
positions are reported in Short-term borrowings and Long-term debt on 
the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The change in fair value for 
these non-structured liabilities is reported in Principal transactions in the 
Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income.Related interest expense on non-structured liabilities is measured based on the contractual interest rates and reported as such in the Consolidated 
Statement of Income.The following table provides information about long-term debt carried at fair value, excluding the debt issued by the consolidated VIEs, at December 31, 2012 and 2011:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012


$28,434

(226)The following table provides information about short-term borrowings carried at fair value at December 31, 2012 and 2011:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2012


$818

(232)274In connection with the Company™s financing and trading activities, the Company has pledged assets to collateralize its obligations under repurchase 
agreements, secured financing agreements, secured liabilities of consolidated 
VIEs and other borrowings. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the approximate carrying values of the significant components of pledged assets recognized on 
the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet include:In millions of dollars2012˜˚˛˛$187,295

234,797
123,178Total
$545,270

In addition, included in cash and due from banks at December 31, 2012 and 2011 are $13.4 billion and $13.6 billion, respectively, of cash segregated under federal and other brokerage regulations or deposited with clearing 
organizations.At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had $286 million and $1.4 billion, respectively, of outstanding letters of credit from third-party banks to satisfy various collateral and margin requirements.At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the approximate fair value of collateral received by the Company that may be resold or repledged by the Company, 
excluding the impact of allowable netting, was $305.9 billion and $350.0 billion, respectively. This collateral was received in connection with resale agreements, securities borrowings and loans, derivative transactions 
and margined broker loans.At December 31, 2012 and 2011, a substantial portion of the collateral received by the Company had been sold or repledged in connection with 
repurchase agreements, securities sold, not yet purchased, securities 
borrowings and loans, pledges to clearing organizations, segregation 
requirements under securities laws and regulations, derivative transactions 
and bank loans.In addition, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had pledged $418 billion and $345 billion, respectively, of collateral that may not be sold or repledged by the secured parties.Rental expense (principally for offices and computer equipment) was 
$1.5 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.Future minimum annual rentals under noncancelable leases, net of sublease income, are as follows:In millions of dollars
Total

The Company provides a variety of guarantees and indemnifications to 
Citigroup customers to enhance their credit standing and enable them 
to complete a wide variety of business transactions. For certain contracts 
meeting the definition of a guarantee, the guarantor must recognize, at 
inception, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing 
the guarantee.In addition, the guarantor must disclose the maximum potential amount of future payments that the guarantor could be required to make under 
the guarantee, if there were a total default by the guaranteed parties. The 
determination of the maximum potential future payments is based on 
the notional amount of the guarantees without consideration of possible 
recoveries under recourse provisions or from collateral held or pledged. 
As such, the Company believes such amounts bear no relationship to the 
anticipated losses, if any, on these guarantees. The following tables present 

information about the Company™s guarantees at December 31, 2012 and 

December 31, 2011:Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars at December 31, 2012 except carrying value in
 millionsExpire within 1 yearExpire after 1 yearTotal amount 
outstandingCarrying value  
(in millions of dollars)$22.3$79.8$102.1
$432.8

7.34.712.041.6
11.245.5
56.72,648.7Š0.50.587.0
‡˛…80.4Š80.4Š‡˛…70.3Š70.3Š
Š30.2
30.2ŠTotal
$191.5$160.7$352.2
$3,210.1
‡˛…

275Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars at December 31, 2011 except carrying value in
 millionsExpire within 1 yearExpire after 1 yearTotal amount 
outstandingCarrying value 
(in millions of dollars)




⁄
‡˛…⁄⁄‡˛…⁄⁄
⁄
Total


‡˛…
Financial standby letters of credit
Citigroup issues standby letters of credit which substitute its own credit 
for that of the borrower. If a letter of credit is drawn down, the borrower is 
obligated to repay Citigroup. Standby letters of credit protect a third party 
from defaults on contractual obligations. Financial standby letters of credit 
include guarantees of payment of insurance premiums and reinsurance risks 
that support industrial revenue bond underwriting and settlement of payment 

obligations to clearing houses, and also support options and purchases of 
securities or are in lieu of escrow deposit accounts. Financial standbys also 
backstop loans, credit facilities, promissory notes and trade acceptances.Performance guaranteesPerformance guarantees and letters of credit are issued to guarantee a 
customer™s tender bid on a construction or systems-installation project or to 
guarantee completion of such projects in accordance with contract terms. 
They are also issued to support a customer™s obligation to supply specified 
products, commodities, or maintenance or warranty services to a third party.Derivative instruments considered to be guaranteesDerivatives are financial instruments whose cash flows are based on a 
notional amount and an underlying instrument, where there is little or 
no initial investment, and whose terms require or permit net settlement. 
Derivatives may be used for a variety of reasons, including risk management, 
or to enhance returns. Financial institutions often act as intermediaries for 
their clients, helping clients reduce their risks. However, derivatives may also 
be used to take a risk position.The derivative instruments considered to be guarantees, which are presented in the tables above, include only those instruments that require Citi 
to make payments to the counterparty based on changes in an underlying 
instrument that is related to an asset, a liability, or an equity security held by 

the guaranteed party. More specifically, derivative instruments considered to 

be guarantees include certain over-the-counter written put options where the 

counterparty is not a bank, hedge fund or broker-dealer (such counterparties 

are considered to be dealers in these markets and may, therefore, not hold 

the underlying instruments). However, credit derivatives sold by the Company 

are excluded from the tables above as they are disclosed separately in Note 23 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, non-credit derivative contracts that are cash settled and for which the Company is unable to assert 
that it is probable the counterparty held the underlying instrument at the 
inception of the contract also are excluded from the tables above.In instances where the Company™s maximum potential future payment is 
unlimited, the notional amount of the contract is disclosed.Loans sold with recourseLoans sold with recourse represent the Company™s obligations to reimburse 
the buyers for loan losses under certain circumstances. Recourse refers to the 
clause in a sales agreement under which a lender will fully reimburse the 
buyer/investor for any losses resulting from the purchased loans. This may be 
accomplished by the seller taking back any loans that become delinquent.In addition to the amounts shown in the tables above, Citi has recorded a mortgage repurchase reserve for its potential repurchases or make-whole 
liability regarding representation and warranty claims. The repurchase 
reserve was $1,565 million and $1,188 million at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, and these amounts are included in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.Repurchase ReserveŠWhole Loan SalesThe repurchase reserve estimation process for potential residential mortgage 
whole loan representation and warranty claims is based on various 
assumptions which are primarily based on Citi™s historical repurchase 
activity with the GSEs. The assumptions used to calculate this repurchase 
reserve include numerous estimates and judgments and thus contain a level 
of uncertainty and risk that, if different from actual results, could have a 
material impact on the reserve amounts. As of December 31, 2012, Citi estimates that the range of reasonably possible loss for whole loan sale representation and warranty claims in excess 
of amounts accrued could be up to $0.6 billion. This estimate was derived by modifying the key assumptions discussed above to reflect management™s judgment regarding reasonably possible adverse changes to those 
assumptions. Citi™s estimate of reasonably possible loss is based on currently 

available information, significant judgment and numerous assumptions that 
are subject to change.276Repurchase ReserveŠPrivate-Label SecuritizationsInvestors in private-label securitizations may seek recovery for alleged 
breaches of representations and warranties, as well as losses caused by 
non-performing loans more generally, through repurchase claims or 
through litigation premised on a variety of legal theories. Citi considers 
litigation relating to private-label securitizations as part of its contingencies 
analysis. For additional information, see Note 28 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Of the repurchase claims received, Citi believes some are based on a review of the underlying loan files, while others are not based on such a review. In either case, upon receipt of a claim, Citi typically requests that it be provided 
with the underlying detail supporting the claim. To date, Citi has received 

little or no response to these requests for information.Citi cannot reasonably estimate probable losses from future repurchase claims for private-label securitizations because the claims to date have been 
received at an unpredictable rate, the factual basis for those claims is unclear, 

and very few such claims have been resolved. Rather, at the present time, Citi 

records reserves related to private-label securitizations repurchase claims 
based on estimated losses arising from those actual claims received that 
appear to be based on a review of the underlying loan files. The estimation 
reflected in this reserve is based on currently available information and relies 
on various assumptions that involve numerous estimates and judgments that 
are inherently uncertain and subject to change. If actual experiences differ 
from Citi™s assumptions, future provisions may differ substantially from Citi™s 

current reserves.Securities lending indemnificationsOwners of securities frequently lend those securities for a fee to other parties 
who may sell them short or deliver them to another party to satisfy some 
other obligation. Banks may administer such securities lending programs for 
their clients. Securities lending indemnifications are issued by the bank to 
guarantee that a securities lending customer will be made whole in the event 
that the security borrower does not return the security subject to the lending 
agreement and collateral held is insufficient to cover the market value of 
the security.Credit card merchant processing
Credit card merchant processing guarantees represent the Company™s indirect 
obligations in connection with the processing of private label and bank card 
transactions on behalf of merchants.Citigroup™s primary credit card business is the issuance of credit cards to individuals. In addition, the Company: (i) provides transaction processing 
services to various merchants with respect to its private-label cards and 
(ii) has potential liability for bank card transaction processing services. The nature of the liability in either case arises as a result of a billing dispute 
between a merchant and a cardholder that is ultimately resolved in the 
cardholder™s favor. The merchant is liable to refund the amount to the 
cardholder. In general, if the credit card processing company is unable to 

collect this amount from the merchant, the credit card processing company 
bears the loss for the amount of the credit or refund paid to the cardholder.
With regard to (i) above, the Company continues to have the primary contingent liability with respect to its portfolio of private-label merchants. 
The risk of loss is mitigated as the cash flows between the Company and the 
merchant are settled on a net basis and the Company has the right to offset 
any payments with cash flows otherwise due to the merchant. To further 

mitigate this risk the Company may delay settlement, require a merchant 
to make an escrow deposit, include event triggers to provide the Company 
with more financial and operational control in the event of the financial 
deterioration of the merchant, or require various credit enhancements 
(including letters of credit and bank guarantees). In the unlikely event that 
a private-label merchant is unable to deliver products, services or a refund to 
its private-label cardholders, the Company is contingently liable to credit or 
refund cardholders.With regard to (ii) above, the Company has a potential liability for bank card transactions where Citi provides the transaction processing services 
as well as those where a third party provides the services and Citi acts as a 
secondary guarantor, should that processor fail to perform.
The Company™s maximum potential contingent liability related to both 
bank card and private-label merchant processing services is estimated to be 
the total volume of credit card transactions that meet the requirements to be 
valid charge-back transactions at any given time. At December 31, 2012 and 
December 31, 2011, this maximum potential exposure was estimated to be 
$70 billion.However, the Company believes that the maximum exposure is not representative of the actual potential loss exposure based on the Company™s 

historical experience. This contingent liability is unlikely to arise, as most 
products and services are delivered when purchased and amounts are 
refunded when items are returned to merchants. The Company assesses 
the probability and amount of its contingent liability related to merchant 
processing based on the financial strength of the primary guarantor, 

the extent and nature of unresolved charge-backs and its historical loss 
experience. At December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the losses incurred 
and the carrying amounts of the Company™s contingent obligations related to 

merchant processing activities were immaterial.277Custody indemnificationsCustody indemnifications are issued to guarantee that custody clients will 
be made whole in the event that a third-party subcustodian or depository 
institution fails to safeguard clients™ assets.Other guarantees and indemnificationsCredit Card Protection ProgramsThe Company, through its credit card business, provides various cardholder 
protection programs on several of its card products, including programs 
that provide insurance coverage for rental cars, coverage for certain losses 
associated with purchased products, price protection for certain purchases 
and protection for lost luggage. These guarantees are not included in 
the table, since the total outstanding amount of the guarantees and the 
Company™s maximum exposure to loss cannot be quantified. The protection 
is limited to certain types of purchases and certain types of losses, and it is 
not possible to quantify the purchases that would qualify for these benefits 
at any given time. The Company assesses the probability and amount of its 
potential liability related to these programs based on the extent and nature of 
its historical loss experience. At December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, 
the actual and estimated losses incurred and the carrying value of the 
Company™s obligations related to these programs were immaterial.Other Representation and Warranty IndemnificationsIn the normal course of business, the Company provides standard 
representations and warranties to counterparties in contracts in connection 
with numerous transactions and also provides indemnifications, including 
indemnifications that protect the counterparties to the contracts in the event 
that additional taxes are owed due either to a change in the tax law or an 
adverse interpretation of the tax law. Counterparties to these transactions 
provide the Company with comparable indemnifications. While such 
representations, warranties and indemnifications are essential components 
of many contractual relationships, they do not represent the underlying 
business purpose for the transactions. The indemnification clauses are often 
standard contractual terms related to the Company™s own performance under 
the terms of a contract and are entered into in the normal course of business 
based on an assessment that the risk of loss is remote. Often these clauses 
are intended to ensure that terms of a contract are met at inception. No 
compensation is received for these standard representations and warranties, 
and it is not possible to determine their fair value because they rarely, if 
ever, result in a payment. In many cases, there are no stated or notional 
amounts included in the indemnification clauses, and the contingencies 

potentially triggering the obligation to indemnify have not occurred and 
are not expected to occur. These indemnifications are not included in the 
tables above.Value-Transfer Networks
The Company is a member of, or shareholder in, hundreds of value-transfer 
networks (VTNs) (payment, clearing and settlement systems as well as 
exchanges) around the world. As a condition of membership, many of 
these VTNs require that members stand ready to pay a pro rata share of the 
losses incurred by the organization due to another member™s default on 
its obligations. The Company™s potential obligations may be limited to its 
membership interests in the VTNs, contributions to the VTN™s funds, or, in 
limited cases, the obligation may be unlimited. The maximum exposure 
cannot be estimated as this would require an assessment of future claims that 
have not yet occurred. We believe the risk of loss is remote given historical 
experience with the VTNs. Accordingly, the Company™s participation in VTNs 
is not reported in the Company™s guarantees tables above, and there are no 
amounts reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 
2012 or December 31, 2011 for potential obligations that could arise from the 
Company™s involvement with VTN associations.Long-Term Care Insurance IndemnificationIn the sale of an insurance subsidiary, the Company provided an 
indemnification to an insurance company for policyholder claims and 
other liabilities relating to a book of long-term care (LTC) business (for the 
entire term of the LTC policies) that is fully reinsured by another insurance 
company. The reinsurer has funded two trusts with securities whose fair 
value (approximately $4.9 billion at December 31, 2012 and $4.4 billion at December 31, 2011) is designed to cover the insurance company™s statutory 
liabilities for the LTC policies. The assets in these trusts are evaluated and 
adjusted periodically to ensure that the fair value of the assets continues to 
cover the estimated statutory liabilities related to the LTC policies, as those 
statutory liabilities change over time. If the reinsurer fails to perform under 
the reinsurance agreement for any reason, including insolvency, and the 
assets in the two trusts are insufficient or unavailable to the ceding insurance 
company, then Citigroup must indemnify the ceding insurance company for 
any losses actually incurred in connection with the LTC policies. Since both 
events would have to occur before Citi would become responsible for any 
payment to the ceding insurance company pursuant to its indemnification 
obligation, and the likelihood of such events occurring is currently not 
probable, there is no liability reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as of December 31, 2012 related to this indemnification. Citi continues to 
closely monitor its potential exposure under this indemnification obligation.Carrying ValueŠGuarantees and IndemnificationsAt December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the total carrying amounts 
of the liabilities related to the guarantees and indemnifications included in 
the tables above amounted to approximately $3.2 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively. The carrying value of derivative instruments is included in 
either Trading account liabilities or Other liabilities, depending upon whether the derivative was entered into for trading or non-trading purposes. 
The carrying value of financial and performance guarantees is included 
in Other liabilities. For loans sold with recourse, the carrying value of the 
liability is included in Other liabilities. In addition, at December 31, 2012 
and December 31, 2011, Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet 
included an allowance for credit losses of $1,119 million and $1,136 million, respectively, relating to letters of credit and unfunded lending commitments.278CollateralCash collateral available to the Company to reimburse losses realized 
under these guarantees and indemnifications amounted to $39 billion and $35 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. Securities and other marketable assets held as collateral amounted to 
$51 billion and $65 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. The majority of collateral is held to reimburse losses realized 
under securities lending indemnifications. Additionally, letters of credit 
in favor of the Company held as collateral amounted to $1.8 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. Other property may also be available to the Company to cover losses under certain 
guarantees and indemnifications; however, the value of such property has 
not been determined.Performance risk
Citi evaluates the performance risk of its guarantees based on the assigned 
referenced counterparty internal or external ratings. Where external ratings 
are used, investment-grade ratings are considered to be Baa/BBB and above, 
while anything below is considered non-investment grade. The Citi internal 
ratings are in line with the related external rating system. On certain 
underlying referenced credits or entities, ratings are not available. Such 
referenced credits are included in the ﬁnot ratedﬂ category. The maximum 
potential amount of the future payments related to guarantees and credit 
derivatives sold is determined to be the notional amount of these contracts, 
which is the par amount of the assets guaranteed.Presented in the tables below are the maximum potential amounts of future payments that are classified based upon internal and external credit 
ratings as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011. As previously 
mentioned, the determination of the maximum potential future payments 
is based on the notional amount of the guarantees without consideration 
of possible recoveries under recourse provisions or from collateral held or 
pledged. As such, the Company believes such amounts bear no relationship to 
the anticipated losses, if any, on these guarantees.Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars as of December 31, 2012
Investment gradeNon-investment gradeNot ratedTotal

$ 80.9
$11.0$ 10.2$102.1

7.33.01.712.0

ŠŠ56.756.7
ŠŠ0.50.5

ŠŠ80.480.4
ŠŠ70.370.3

30.10.1Š30.2
Total
$118.3
$14.1$219.8$352.2
Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars as of December 31, 2011
Investment gradeNon-investment gradeNot ratedTotal




˜ƒ˜

⁄⁄
⁄⁄

⁄⁄
⁄⁄

⁄⁄
Total


279The table below summarizes Citigroup™s credit commitments as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011:In millions of dollarsU.S.Outside U.S.December 31, 
2012˜˚˛˛$ 1,427 $ 5,884 $7,311 


2,3971,496
3,893
14,8973,27918,176

2,0671,429
3,496485,569135,131620,700
138,21990,273228,492
1,1751,084
2,259Total
$645,751 $238,576 $884,327

The majority of unused commitments are contingent upon customers™ maintaining specific credit standards. Commercial commitments generally have floating interest rates and fixed expiration dates and may require 
payment of fees. Such fees (net of certain direct costs) are deferred and, upon 
exercise of the commitment, amortized over the life of the loan or, if exercise 

is deemed remote, amortized over the commitment period.Commercial and similar letters of creditA commercial letter of credit is an instrument by which Citigroup substitutes 
its credit for that of a customer to enable the customer to finance the 
purchase of goods or to incur other commitments. Citigroup issues a letter 
on behalf of its client to a supplier and agrees to pay the supplier upon 
presentation of documentary evidence that the supplier has performed in 
accordance with the terms of the letter of credit. When a letter of credit is 
drawn, the customer is then required to reimburse Citigroup.One- to four-family residential mortgagesA one- to four-family residential mortgage commitment is a written 
confirmation from Citigroup to a seller of a property that the bank will 
advance the specified sums enabling the buyer to complete the purchase.Revolving open-end loans secured by one- to four-family residential properties
Revolving open-end loans secured by one- to four-family residential 
properties are essentially home equity lines of credit. A home equity line 
of credit is a loan secured by a primary residence or second home to the 
extent of the excess of fair market value over the debt outstanding for the 
first mortgage.Commercial real estate, construction and land development
Commercial real estate, construction and land development include 
unused portions of commitments to extend credit for the purpose of 
financing commercial and multifamily residential properties as well as land 
development projects.Both secured-by-real-estate and unsecured commitments are included in this line, as well as undistributed loan proceeds, where there is an obligation 
to advance for construction progress payments. However, this line only includes those extensions of credit that, once funded, will be classified as 
Total loans, net
 on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.Credit card lines
Credit card lines are unconditionally cancellable by the issuer.Commercial and other consumer loan commitmentsCommercial and other consumer loan commitments include overdraft and 
liquidity facilities, as well as commercial commitments to make or purchase 
loans, to purchase third-party receivables, to provide note issuance or 
revolving underwriting facilities and to invest in the form of equity. Amounts 
include $53 billion and $65 billion with an original maturity of less than one year at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively.In addition, included in this line item are highly leveraged financing commitments, which are agreements that provide funding to a borrower with 
higher levels of debt (measured by the ratio of debt capital to equity capital 
of the borrower) than is generally considered normal for other companies. 
This type of financing is commonly employed in corporate acquisitions, 
management buy-outs and similar transactions.Other commitments and contingenciesOther commitments and contingencies include all other transactions related 
to commitments and contingencies not reported on the lines above.280In addition to the matters described below, in the ordinary course of business, Citigroup, its affiliates and subsidiaries, and current and former officers, 
directors and employees (for purposes of this section, sometimes collectively 
referred to as Citigroup and Related Parties) routinely are named as 
defendants in, or as parties to, various legal actions and proceedings. Certain 
of these actions and proceedings assert claims or seek relief in connection 
with alleged violations of consumer protection, securities, banking, 
antifraud, antitrust, anti-money laundering, employment and other statutory 
and common laws. Certain of these actual or threatened legal actions and 
proceedings include claims for substantial or indeterminate compensatory 
or punitive damages, or for injunctive relief, and in some instances seek 
recovery on a class-wide basis.In the ordinary course of business, Citigroup and Related Parties also are subject to governmental and regulatory examinations, information-
gathering requests, investigations and proceedings (both formal and 
informal), certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, 
fines, penalties, restitution, disgorgement, injunctions or other relief. In 
addition, certain affiliates and subsidiaries of Citigroup are banks, registered 
broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, investment advisers or 

other regulated entities and, in those capacities, are subject to regulation 
by various U.S., state and foreign securities, banking, commodity futures, 
consumer protection and other regulators. In connection with formal and 
informal inquiries by these regulators, Citigroup and such affiliates and 
subsidiaries receive numerous requests, subpoenas and orders seeking 
documents, testimony and other information in connection with various 
aspects of their regulated activities. From time to time Citigroup and Related 
Parties also receive grand jury subpoenas and other requests for information 
or assistance, formal or informal, from federal or state law enforcement 
agencies, including among others various United States Attorneys™ Offices, 
the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section and other divisions of 
the Department of Justice, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of 
the United States Department of the Treasury, and the Federal Bureau of 

Investigation, relating to Citigroup and its customers.Because of the global scope of Citigroup™s operations, and its presence 
in countries around the world, Citigroup and Related Parties are subject to 
litigation and governmental and regulatory examinations, information-
gathering requests, investigations and proceedings (both formal and 
informal) in multiple jurisdictions with legal and regulatory regimes that 
may differ substantially, and present substantially different risks, from those 

Citigroup and Related Parties are subject to in the United States. In some 
instances Citigroup and Related Parties may be involved in proceedings 
involving the same subject matter in multiple jurisdictions, which may result 
in overlapping, cumulative or inconsistent outcomes.Citigroup seeks to resolve all litigation and regulatory matters in the manner management believes is in the best interests of Citigroup and its 
shareholders, and contests liability, allegations of wrongdoing and, where 

applicable, the amount of damages or scope of any penalties or other relief 
sought as appropriate in each pending matter.
ASC 450 (formerly SFAS 5) governs the disclosure and recognition of loss 
contingencies, including potential losses from litigation and regulatory 
matters. ASC 450 defines a ﬁloss contingencyﬂ as ﬁan existing condition, 
situation, or set of circumstances involving uncertainty as to possible loss 
to an entity that will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events 
occur or fail to occur.ﬂ It imposes different requirements for the recognition 
and disclosure of loss contingencies based on the likelihood of occurrence 
of the contingent future event or events. It distinguishes among degrees of 
likelihood using the following three terms: ﬁprobable,ﬂ meaning that ﬁthe 
future event or events are likely to occurﬂ; ﬁremote,ﬂ meaning that ﬁthe 
chance of the future event or events occurring is slightﬂ; and ﬁreasonably 
possible,ﬂ meaning that ﬁthe chance of the future event or events occurring 
is more than remote but less than likely.ﬂ These three terms are used below 
as defined in ASC 450.Accruals. ASC 450 requires accrual for a loss contingency when it is ﬁprobable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact 
of lossﬂ and ﬁthe amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.ﬂ In 
accordance with ASC 450, Citigroup establishes accruals for all litigation 
and regulatory matters, including matters disclosed herein, when Citigroup 
believes it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the 
loss can be reasonably estimated. When the reasonable estimate of the loss is 
within a range of amounts, the minimum amount of the range is accrued, 
unless some higher amount within the range is a better estimate than any 
other amount within the range. Once established, accruals are adjusted from 
time to time, as appropriate, in light of additional information. The amount 
of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially 
higher or lower than the amounts accrued for those matters.Disclosure. ASC 450 requires disclosure of a loss contingency if ﬁthere is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss or an additional loss may have 
been incurredﬂ and there is no accrual for the loss because the conditions 
described above are not met or an exposure to loss exists in excess of the 
amount accrued. In accordance with ASC 450, if Citigroup has not accrued 
for a matter because Citigroup believes that a loss is reasonably possible but 
not probable, or that a loss is probable but not reasonably estimable, and 
the matter thus does not meet the criteria for accrual, and the reasonably 
possible loss is material, it discloses the loss contingency. In addition, 

Citigroup discloses matters for which it has accrued if it believes a reasonably 
possible exposure to material loss exists in excess of the amount accrued. 
In accordance with ASC 450, Citigroup™s disclosure includes an estimate of 

the reasonably possible loss or range of loss for those matters as to which an 
estimate can be made. ASC 450 does not require disclosure of an estimate 
of the reasonably possible loss or range of loss where an estimate cannot 
be made. Neither accrual nor disclosure is required for losses that are 
deemed remote.281Inherent Uncertainty of the Matters Disclosed. Certain of the matters disclosed below involve claims for substantial or indeterminate damages. The claims asserted in these matters typically are broad, often spanning a 
multi-year period and sometimes a wide range of business activities, and 
the plaintiffs™ or claimants™ alleged damages frequently are not quantified 
or factually supported in the complaint or statement of claim. As a result, 
Citigroup is often unable to estimate the loss in such matters, even if it 
believes that a loss is probable or reasonably possible, until developments 
in the case have yielded additional information sufficient to support a 
quantitative assessment of the range of reasonably possible loss. Such 
developments may include, among other things, discovery from adverse 
parties or third parties, rulings by the court on key issues, analysis by 
retained experts, and engagement in settlement negotiations. Depending on 
a range of factors, such as the complexity of the facts, the novelty of the legal 
theories, the pace of discovery, the court™s scheduling order, the timing of 

court decisions, and the adverse party™s willingness to negotiate in good faith 

toward a resolution, it may be months or years after the filing of a case before 
an estimate of the range of reasonably possible loss can be made.Matters as to Which an Estimate Can Be Made. For some of the matters disclosed below, Citigroup is currently able to estimate a reasonably possible 

loss or range of loss in excess of amounts accrued (if any). For some of the 
matters included within this estimation, an accrual has been made because 
a loss is believed to be both probable and reasonably estimable, but an 
exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued; in these cases, the 
estimate reflects the reasonably possible range of loss in excess of the accrued 
amount. For other matters included within this estimation, no accrual has 
been made because a loss, although estimable, is believed to be reasonably 
possible, but not probable; in these cases the estimate reflects the reasonably 
possible loss or range of loss. As of December 31, 2012, Citigroup estimates 
that the reasonably possible unaccrued loss in future periods for these 
matters ranges up to approximately $5 billion in the aggregate.These estimates are based on currently available information. As available information changes, the matters for which Citigroup is able to estimate will 
change, and the estimates themselves will change. In addition, while many 
estimates presented in financial statements and other financial disclosure 
involve significant judgment and may be subject to significant uncertainty, estimates of the range of reasonably possible loss arising from litigation and 
regulatory proceedings are subject to particular uncertainties. For example, 
at the time of making an estimate, Citigroup may have only preliminary, 

incomplete, or inaccurate information about the facts underlying the claim; 
its assumptions about the future rulings of the court or other tribunal 
on significant issues, or the behavior and incentives of adverse parties or 
regulators, may prove to be wrong; and the outcomes it is attempting to 
predict are often not amenable to the use of statistical or other quantitative 
analytical tools. In addition, from time to time an outcome may occur that 
Citigroup had not accounted for in its estimate because it had deemed such 
an outcome to be remote. For all these reasons, the amount of loss in excess 
of accruals ultimately incurred for the matters as to which an estimate has 
been made could be substantially higher or lower than the range of loss 
included in the estimate.Matters as to Which an Estimate Cannot Be Made. For other matters disclosed below, Citigroup is not currently able to estimate the reasonably 

possible loss or range of loss. Many of these matters remain in very 
preliminary stages (even in some cases where a substantial period of time has 

passed since the commencement of the matter), with few or no substantive 
legal decisions by the court or tribunal defining the scope of the claims, the 
class (if any), or the potentially available damages, and fact discovery is still 
in progress or has not yet begun. In many of these matters, Citigroup has 
not yet answered the complaint or statement of claim or asserted its defenses, 
nor has it engaged in any negotiations with the adverse party (whether 
a regulator or a private party). For all these reasons, Citigroup cannot at 
this time estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, if any, for 

these matters.Opinion of Management as to Eventual Outcome. Subject to the foregoing, it is the opinion of Citigroup™s management, based on current 

knowledge and after taking into account its current legal accruals, that the 
eventual outcome of all matters described in this Note would not be likely 
to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition 
of Citigroup. Nonetheless, given the substantial or indeterminate amounts 
sought in certain of these matters, and the inherent unpredictability of such 
matters, an adverse outcome in certain of these matters could, from time 
to time, have a material adverse effect on Citigroup™s consolidated results of 

operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in numerous 
legal actions and other proceedings asserting claims for damages and 
related relief for losses arising from the global financial credit crisis that 
began in 2007. Such matters include, among other types of proceedings, 
claims asserted by: (i) individual investors and purported classes of investors 
in Citigroup™s common and preferred stock and debt, alleging violations 
of the federal securities laws, foreign laws, state securities and fraud law, 
and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA); and (ii) 
individual investors and purported classes of investors in securities and 
other investments underwritten, issued or marketed by Citigroup, including 
securities issued by other public companies, collateralized debt obligations 
(CDOs), mortgage-backed securities (MBS), auction rate securities (ARS), 
investment funds, and other structured or leveraged instruments, which have 
suffered losses as a result of the credit crisis. These matters have been filed in 
state and federal courts across the U.S. and in foreign tribunals, as well as in 
arbitrations before the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and 
other arbitration associations.282In addition to these litigations and arbitrations, Citigroup continues to cooperate fully in response to subpoenas and requests for information from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), FINRA, state attorneys 
general, the Department of Justice and subdivisions thereof, bank regulators, 
and other government agencies and authorities, in connection with various 
formal and informal (and, in many instances, industry-wide) inquiries 
concerning Citigroup™s mortgage-related conduct and business activities, 

as well as other business activities affected by the credit crisis. These 
business activities include, but are not limited to, Citigroup™s sponsorship, 

packaging, issuance, marketing, servicing and underwriting of CDOs and 
MBS, and its origination, sale or other transfer, servicing, and foreclosure of 

residential mortgages.Mortgage-Related Litigation and Other Matters
Securities Actions: Beginning in November 2007, Citigroup and Related Parties were named as defendants in a variety of class action and individual 
securities lawsuits filed by investors in Citigroup™s equity and debt securities 
in state and federal courts relating to the Company™s disclosures regarding its 
exposure to subprime-related assets.Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in the consolidated putative class action IN RE CITIGROUP INC. SECURITIES 
LITIGATION, pending in the United States District Court for the Southern 

District of New York. The consolidated amended complaint asserts claims 

under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on 
behalf of a putative class of purchasers of Citigroup common stock from 
January 1, 2004 through January 15, 2009. On November 9, 2010, the court 
issued an opinion and order dismissing all claims except those arising out of 
Citigroup™s exposure to CDOs for the time period February 1, 2007 through 

April 18, 2008. On August 30, 2012, the court entered an order preliminarily 
approving the parties™ proposed settlement, pursuant to which Citigroup will 
pay $590 million in exchange for a release of all claims asserted on behalf of the settlement class. A fairness hearing is scheduled for April 8, 2013. 
Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in 
court filings under the consolidated lead docket number 07 Civ. 9901 (S.D.N.Y.)
 (Stein, J.).Citigroup and Related Parties also have been named as defendants in the consolidated putative class action IN RE CITIGROUP INC. BOND 
LITIGATION, also pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The plaintiffs assert claims under Sections 11, 12 and 

15 of the Securities Act of 1933 on behalf of a putative class of purchasers of 
$71 billion of debt securities and preferred stock issued by Citigroup between May 2006 and August 2008. On July 12, 2010, the court issued an opinion 
and order dismissing plaintiffs™ claims under Section 12 of the Securities Act 
of 1933, but denying defendants™ motion to dismiss certain claims under 
Section 11. Fact discovery began in November 2010, and plaintiffs™ motion 
to certify a class is pending. Additional information concerning this action is 
publicly available in court filings under the consolidated lead docket number 
08 Civ. 9522 (S.D.N.Y.) (Stein, J.).
Citigroup and Related Parties also have been named as defendants in a 
variety of other putative class actions and individual actions arising out of 

similar facts to those alleged in the actions described above. These actions assert 

a wide range of claims, including claims under the federal securities laws, 

Section 90 of the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 (Eng.), ERISA, and 

state law. Additional information concerning these actions is publicly available 

in court filings under the docket numbers 09 Civ. 7359 (S.D.N.Y.) (Stein, J.), 09 

Civ. 8755 (S.D.N.Y.) (Stein, J.), 11
 Civ. 7672 (S.D.N.Y.) (Koeltl, J.), 12 Civ. 6653 
(S.D.N.Y.) (Stein, J.), 12
 Civ. 9050 (S.D.N.Y.) (Stein, J.), and Case No. 110105028 
(Pa. Commw. Ct.) (Sheppard, J.).
Beginning in November 2007, certain Citigroup affiliates also have been named as defendants arising out of their activities as underwriters of 
securities in actions brought by investors in securities of public companies 
adversely affected by the credit crisis. Many of these matters have been 
dismissed or settled. As a general matter, issuers indemnify underwriters 

in connection with such claims, but in certain of these matters Citigroup 
affiliates are not being indemnified or may in the future cease to be 
indemnified because of the financial condition of the issuer.
Regulatory Actions: On October 19, 2011, in connection with its industry-wide investigation concerning CDO-related business activities, the 
SEC filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern 
District of New York regarding Citigroup™s structuring and sale of the Class
 V Funding III CDO transaction (Class V). On the same day, the SEC and Citigroup announced a settlement of the SEC™s claims, subject to judicial 

approval, and the SEC filed a proposed final judgment pursuant to which 
Citigroup™s U.S. broker-dealer Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (CGMI) agreed 

to disgorge $160 million and to pay $30 million in prejudgment interest and a $95 million penalty. On November 28, 2011, the court issued an order refusing to approve the proposed settlement and ordering trial to begin on 
July 16, 2012. The parties appealed from this order to the United States Court 
of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which, on March 15, 2012, granted a stay of 
the district court proceedings pending resolution of the appeals. The parties 
have fully briefed their appeals, and the Second Circuit held oral argument 
on February 8, 2013. Additional information concerning this matter is 
publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 11 Civ. 7387 

(S.D.N.Y.) (Rakoff, J.) and 11-5227 (2d Cir.).
Mortgage-Backed Securities and CDO Investor Actions and Repurchase Claims: Beginning in July 2010, Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in complaints filed by purchasers of MBS 
and CDOs sold or underwritten by Citigroup. The MBS-related complaints 
generally assert that the defendants made material misrepresentations and 
omissions about the credit quality of the mortgage loans underlying the 
securities, such as the underwriting standards to which the loans conformed, 
the loan-to-value ratio of the loans, and the extent to which the mortgaged 
properties were owner-occupied, and typically assert claims under Section
 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, state blue sky laws, and/or common-law 
misrepresentation-based causes of action. The CDO-related complaints 
further allege that the defendants adversely selected or permitted the adverse 
selection of CDO collateral without full disclosure to investors. The plaintiffs 283in these actions generally seek rescission of their investments, recovery of their investment losses, or other damages. Other purchasers of MBS and 
CDOs sold or underwritten by Citigroup have threatened to file additional 
suits, for some of which Citigroup has agreed to toll (extend) the statute 
of limitations.The filed actions generally are in the early stages of proceedings, and certain of the actions or threatened actions have been resolved through 
settlement or otherwise. The aggregate original purchase amount of the 
purchases at issue in the filed suits is approximately $10.8 billion, and the aggregate original purchase amount of the purchases covered by 
tolling agreements with investors threatening litigation is approximately 
$6.4 billion. The largest MBS investor claim against Citigroup and Related Parties, as measured by the face value of purchases at issue, has been asserted 
by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, as conservator for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. This suit was filed on September 2, 2011, and has been 
coordinated in the United States District Court for the Southern District of 
New York with 15 other related suits brought by the same plaintiff against 

various other financial institutions. Motions to dismiss in the coordinated 
suits have been denied in large part, and discovery is proceeding. An 
interlocutory appeal currently is pending in the United States Court of 
Appeals for the Second Circuit on issues common to all of the coordinated 
suits. Additional information concerning certain of these actions is publicly 
available in court filings under the docket numbers 11 Civ. 6196 (S.D.N.Y.) 

(Cote, J.), 12 Civ. 4000 (S.D.N.Y.) (Swain, J.), 12 Civ. 00790 (M.D. Al.) 

(Watkins, C.J.), 12 Civ. 4354 (C.D. Cal.) (Pfaezler, J.), 650212/12 (N.Y. 

Sup. Ct.) (Oing, J.), 652607/2012 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.) (Schweitzer, J.), and 

CGC-10-501610 (Cal. Super. Ct.) (Kramer, J.).
In addition to these actions, various parties to MBS securitizations and other interested parties have asserted that certain Citigroup affiliates breached 

representations and warranties made in connection with mortgage loans sold 
into securitization trusts (private-label securitizations). In connection with 
such assertions, Citi has received significant levels of inquiries and demands 
for loan files, as well as requests to toll (extend) the applicable statutes of 
limitation for, among others, representation and warranty claims relating to 

its private-label securitizations. These inquiries, demands and requests have 
come from trustees of securitization trusts and others.Among these requests, in December 2011, Citigroup received a letter from the 
law firm Gibbs & Bruns LLP, which purports to represent a group of investment 

advisers and holders of MBS issued or underwritten by Citigroup affiliates. 

Through that letter and subsequent discussions, Gibbs & Bruns LLP has asserted 

that its clients collectively hold certificates in 87 MBS trusts purportedly issued 

and/or underwritten by Citigroup affiliates, and that Citigroup affiliates have 

repurchase obligations for certain mortgages in these trusts.Citi has also received repurchase claims for breaches of representations and warranties related to private-label securitizations. These claims have 
been received at an unpredictable rate, although the number of claims 
increased substantially during 2012 and is expected to remain elevated, 
particularly given the level of inquiries, demands and requests noted 
above. Upon receipt of a claim, Citi typically requests that it be provided with the underlying detail supporting the claim; however, to date, Citi has 

received little or no response to these requests for information. As a result, 
the vast majority of the repurchase claims received on Citi™s private-label 

securitizations remain unresolved. Citi expects unresolved repurchase claims 
for private-label securitizations to continue to increase because new claims 
and requests for loan files continue to be received, while there has been little 
progress to date in resolving these repurchase claims.Independent Foreclosure Review: On January 7, 2013, Citi, along with other major mortgage servicers operating under consent orders dated April 
13, 2011 with the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller 
of the Currency (OCC), entered into a settlement agreement with those 
regulators to modify the requirements of the independent foreclosure 
review mandated by the consent orders. Under the settlement, Citi agreed 
to pay approximately $305 million into a qualified settlement fund and to offer $487 million of mortgage assistance to borrowers in accordance with agreed criteria. Upon completion of Citi™s payment and mortgage assistance obligations under the agreement, the Federal Reserve Board and the OCC 
have agreed to deem the requirements of the independent foreclosure review 
under the consent orders to be satisfied.Abu Dhabi Investment AuthorityIn 2010, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) commenced an arbitration 
against Citigroup and Related Parties alleging statutory and common 
law claims in connection with its $7.5 billion investment in Citigroup in December 2007. ADIA sought rescission of the investment agreement or, in 
the alternative, more than $4 billion in damages. Following a hearing in May 2011 and post-hearing proceedings, on October 14, 2011, the arbitration 
panel issued a final award and statement of reasons finding in favor of 
Citigroup on all claims asserted by ADIA. On January 11, 2012, ADIA filed a 
petition to vacate the award in New York state court. On January 13, 2012, 
Citigroup removed the petition to the United States District Court for the 
Southern District of New York. On April 3, 2012, Citigroup filed an opposition 
to ADIA™s petition and a cross-petition to confirm the award. Both ADIA™s 
petition and Citigroup™s cross-petition are pending. Additional information 
concerning this matter is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
number 12 Civ. 283 (S.D.N.Y.) (Daniels, J.).Alternative Investment FundŒRelated Litigation and Other Matters
The SEC is investigating the management and marketing of the ASTA/
MAT and Falcon funds, alternative investment funds managed and 
marketed by certain Citigroup affiliates that suffered substantial losses 
during the credit crisis. In addition to the SEC inquiry, on June 11, 2012, 
the New York Attorney General served a subpoena on a Citigroup affiliate 
seeking documents and information concerning certain of these funds, 
and on August 1, 2012, the Massachusetts Attorney General served a Civil 
Investigative Demand on a Citigroup affiliate seeking similar documents and 
information. Citigroup is cooperating fully with these inquiries.In October 2012, Citigroup Alternative Investments LLC (CAI) was named as a defendant in a putative class action lawsuit filed on behalf of 
investors in CSO Ltd., CSO US Ltd., and Corporate Special Opportunities Ltd., whose investments were managed indirectly by a CAI affiliate. The plaintiff 
284asserts a variety of state common law claims, alleging that he and other investors were misled into investing in the funds and were further misled 
into not redeeming their investments. The complaint seeks to recover more 
than $400 million on behalf of a putative class of investors. Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings 
under the docket number 12-cv-7717 (S.D.N.Y.) (Castel, J.).In addition, numerous investors in the ASTA/MAT funds have filed 
lawsuits or arbitrations against Citigroup and Related Parties seeking 
damages and related relief. Although most of these investor disputes have 
been resolved, some remain pending.Auction Rate SecuritiesŒRelated Litigation and Other MattersBeginning in March 2008, Citigroup and Related Parties have been named 
as defendants in numerous actions and proceedings brought by Citigroup 
shareholders and purchasers or issuers of ARS, asserting claims under the 
federal securities laws, Section 1 of the Sherman Act and state law arising 
from the collapse of the ARS market in early 2008, which plaintiffs contend 
Citigroup and other ARS underwriters foresaw or should have foreseen but 
failed adequately to disclose. Most of these matters have been dismissed or 
settled. Additional information concerning certain of the pending actions 
is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 08 Civ. 3095 
(S.D.N.Y.) (Swain, J.), 10-722, 10-867, and 11-1270 (2d Cir.).KIKOsPrior to the devaluation of the Korean won in 2008, several local banks in 

Korea, including a Citigroup subsidiary (CKI), entered into foreign exchange 

derivative transactions with small and medium-size export businesses (SMEs) 

to enable the SMEs to hedge their currency risk. The derivatives had ﬁknock-
in, knock-outﬂ features. Following the devaluation of the won, many of these 

SMEs incurred significant losses on the derivative transactions and filed civil 

lawsuits against the banks, including CKI. The claims generally allege that the 

products were not suitable and that the risk disclosure was inadequate.As of December 31, 2012, there were 88 civil lawsuits filed by SMEs against CKI. To date, 82 decisions have been rendered at the district court level, and 

CKI has prevailed in 64 of those decisions. In the other 18 decisions, plaintiffs 
were awarded only a portion of the damages sought. The damage awards 
total in the aggregate approximately $28.5 million. CKI is appealing the 18 adverse decisions. A significant number of plaintiffs that had decisions 
rendered against them are also filing appeals, including plaintiffs that were 
awarded less than all of the damages they sought.Of the 82 cases decided at the district court level, 60 have been appealed to the high court, including the 18 in which an adverse decision was rendered 
against CKI in the district court. Of the 17 appeals decided at high court level, 
CKI prevailed in 11 cases, and in the other six plaintiffs were awarded partial 
damages, which increased the aggregate damages awarded against CKI by 
a further $10.9 million. CKI is appealing five of the adverse decisions to the Korean Supreme Court.Lehman Structured Notes Matters
Like many other financial institutions, certain Citigroup affiliates and 
subsidiaries distributed structured notes (Notes) issued and guaranteed by 
Lehman entities to retail customers outside the United States, principally 
in Europe and Asia. After the relevant Lehman entities filed for bankruptcy 
protection in September 2008, certain regulators commenced investigations 
and some purchasers of the Notes filed civil actions or otherwise complained 
about the sales process. Citigroup has resolved the vast majority of these 
regulatory proceedings and customer complaints.In Belgium, criminal charges were brought against a Citigroup subsidiary (CBB) and three former employees. On December 1, 2010, the court acquitted 
all defendants of fraud and anti-money laundering charges but convicted 
all defendants under the Prospectus Act, and convicted CBB under Fair 
Trade Practices legislation. Both CBB and the Public Prosecutor appealed the judgment. On May 21, 2012, the Belgian appellate court dismissed all 
criminal charges against CBB. The Public Prosecutor has appealed this 
decision to the Belgian Supreme Court.Lehman Brothers Bankruptcy ProceedingsBeginning in September 2010, Citigroup and Related Parties have been 
named as defendants in various adversary proceedings in the Chapter 11 
bankruptcy proceedings of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LBHI) and the 
liquidation proceedings of Lehman Brothers Inc. (LBI).On March 18, 2011, Citigroup and Related Parties were named as defendants in an adversary proceeding asserting claims under federal 
bankruptcy and state law to recover a $1 billion deposit LBI placed with Citibank, N.A., to avoid a setoff taken by Citibank, N.A. against the deposit, 
and to recover additional assets of LBI held by Citibank, N.A. and its affiliates. 
On December 13, 2012, the court entered an order approving a settlement 
between the parties resolving all of LBI™s claims. Under the settlement, Citibank, N.A. retained $1.05 billion of assets to set off against its claims and received an allowed unsecured claim in the amount of $245 million. Additional information concerning this adversary proceeding is publicly 
available in court filings under the docket numbers 11-01681 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) (Peck, J.) and 08-01420 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) (Peck, J.).
On February 8, 2012, Citigroup and Related Parties were named as defendants in an adversary proceeding asserting objections to proofs of claim 
filed by Citibank, N.A. and its affiliates totaling approximately $2.6 billion, and claims under federal bankruptcy and state law to recover $2 billion deposited by LBHI with Citibank, N.A. against which Citibank, N.A. asserts a 
right of setoff. Plaintiffs also seek avoidance of a $500 million transfer and an amendment to a guarantee in favor of Citibank, N.A., and other relief. 
Additional information concerning this adversary proceeding is publicly 
available in court filings under the docket numbers 12-01044 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) (Peck, J.) and 08-13555 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) (Peck, J.).
285Terra Firma LitigationIn December 2009, the general partners of two related private equity funds 
filed a complaint in New York state court, subsequently removed to the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, asserting 
multi-billion-dollar fraud and other common law claims against certain 
Citigroup affiliates arising out of the May 2007 auction of the music 
company EMI, in which Citigroup acted as advisor to EMI and as a lender to 
plaintiffs™ acquisition vehicle. Following a jury trial, a verdict was returned 
in favor of Citigroup on November 4, 2010. Plaintiffs have appealed the 
judgment with respect to certain of their claims to the United States Court 
of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Argument was held on October 4, 2012, 
and the matter is pending. Additional information concerning this action is 
publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 09 Civ. 10459 
(S.D.N.Y.) (Rakoff, J.) and 11-0126 (2d Cir.).Terra SecuritiesŒRelated LitigationCertain Citigroup affiliates have been named as defendants in an action 
brought by seven Norwegian municipalities, asserting claims for fraud and 
negligent misrepresentation arising out of the municipalities™ purchase 
of fund-linked notes acquired from the now-defunct securities firm, Terra 
Securities, which in turn acquired those notes from Citigroup. Plaintiffs 
seek approximately $120 million in compensatory damages, plus punitive damages. Defendants™ motion for summary judgment is pending. Additional 
information related to this action is publicly available in court filings under 
the docket number 09 Civ. 7058 (S.D.N.Y.) (Marrero, J.).Tribune Company BankruptcyCertain Citigroup affiliates have been named as defendants in adversary 
proceedings related to the Chapter 11 cases of Tribune Company (Tribune) 
filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware, 
asserting claims arising out of the approximately $11 billion leveraged buyout of Tribune in 2007. On July 23, 2012, the Bankruptcy Court 
confirmed the Fourth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization, which provides 
for releases of claims against Citigroup, other than those against CGMI 
relating to its role as advisor to Tribune. Certain Citigroup affiliates also have 
been named as defendants in actions brought by Tribune creditors alleging 
state law constructive fraudulent conveyance claims. These matters are 
pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New 
York as part of a multi-district litigation. Additional information concerning 
these actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 
08-13141 (Bankr. D. Del.) (Carey, J.), 11 MD 02296 (S.D.N.Y.) (Pauley, J.), 
and 12 MC 2296 (S.D.N.Y.) (Pauley, J.).

Regulatory Actions: Government agencies in the U.S., including the 
Department of Justice, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the 
SEC, and a consortium of state attorneys general, as well as agencies in 
other jurisdictions, including the European Commission, the U.K. Financial 
Services Authority, the Japanese Financial Services Agency (JFSA), the 
Canadian Competition Bureau, the Swiss Competition Commission and the 
Monetary Authority of Singapore, are conducting investigations or making 
inquiries regarding submissions made by panel banks to bodies that publish 
various interbank offered rates and other benchmark rates. As members of 
a number of such panels, Citigroup subsidiaries have received requests for 
information and documents. Citigroup is cooperating with the investigations 
and inquiries and is responding to the requests.On December 16, 2011, the JFSA took administrative action against Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc. (CGMJ) for, among other things, 

certain communications made by two CGMJ traders about the Euroyen 
Tokyo interbank offered rate (TIBOR) and the Japanese yen London 

interbank offered rate (LIBOR). The JFSA issued a business improvement 
order and suspended CGMJ™s trading in derivatives related to yen LIBOR 

and Euroyen and yen TIBOR from January 10 to January 23, 2012. On the 
same day, the JFSA also took administrative action against Citibank Japan 

Ltd. (CJL) for conduct arising out of CJL™s retail business and also noted that 

the communications made by the CGMJ traders to employees of CJL about 
Euroyen TIBOR had not been properly reported to CJL™s management team.
Antitrust and Other Litigation: Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., along with other U.S. Dollar (USD) LIBOR panel banks, are defendants in a multi-
district litigation (MDL) proceeding before Judge Buchwald in the United 
States District Court for the Southern District of New York captioned IN 
RE LIBOR-BASED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ANTITRUST LITIGATION, 
appearing under docket number 1:11-md-2262 (S.D.N.Y.). Judge Buchwald 
has appointed interim lead class counsel for, and consolidated amended 
complaints have been filed on behalf of, three separate putative classes of 
plaintiffs: (i) over-the-counter (OTC) purchasers of derivative instruments 
tied to USD LIBOR; (ii) purchasers of exchange-traded derivative instruments 
tied to USD LIBOR; and (iii) indirect OTC purchasers of U.S. debt securities. 
Each of these putative classes alleges that the panel bank defendants 
conspired to suppress USD LIBOR in violation of the Sherman Act and/or 
the Commodity Exchange Act, thereby causing plaintiffs to suffer losses on 
the instruments they purchased. Also consolidated into the MDL proceeding 
are individual civil actions commenced by various Charles Schwab entities 
alleging that the panel bank defendants conspired to suppress the USD LIBOR 
rates in violation of the Sherman Act, the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt 
Organizations Act (RICO), and California state law, causing the Schwab 
entities to suffer losses on USD LIBOR-linked financial instruments they 
owned. Plaintiffs in these actions seek compensatory damages and restitution 
for losses caused by the alleged violations, as well as treble damages under 
the Sherman Act. The Schwab and OTC plaintiffs also seek injunctive relief.286Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., along with other defendants, have moved to dismiss all of the above actions that were consolidated into the MDL proceeding as of June 29, 2012. Briefing on the motion to dismiss 
was completed on September 27, 2012. Judge Buchwald has stayed all 
subsequently filed actions that fall within the scope of the MDL until the 
motion to dismiss has been resolved. Citigroup and/or Citibank, N.A. are 
named in the 17 such stayed actions that have been consolidated with or 
marked as related to the MDL proceeding.Eleven of these actions have been brought on behalf of various putative 
plaintiff classes, including (i) banks, savings and loans institutions and credit 

unions that allegedly suffered losses on loans they made at interest rates tied to 

USD LIBOR, (ii) holders of adjustable-rate mortgages tied to USD LIBOR, and 

(iii) individual and municipal purchasers of various financial instruments 

tied to USD LIBOR. The remaining six actions have been brought by individual 

plaintiffs, including an entity that allegedly purchased municipal bonds and 

various California counties, municipalities, and related public entities that 

invested in various derivatives tied to USD LIBOR. Plaintiffs in each of the 17 

stayed actions allege that the panel bank defendants manipulated USD LIBOR 

in violation of the Sherman Act, RICO, and/or state antitrust and racketeering 

laws, and several plaintiffs also assert common law claims, including fraud, 

unjust enrichment, negligent misrepresentation, interference with economic 

advantage, and/or breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair 

dealing. Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages and, where authorized by 

statute, treble damages and injunctive relief.Additional information concerning the stayed actions is publicly available in court filings under docket numbers 1:12-cv-4205 (S.D.N.Y.) 

(Buchwald, J.), 1:12-cv-5723 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.), 1:12-cv-5822 

(S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.), 1:12-cv-6056 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.), 

1:12-cv-7461 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.), 2:12-cv-10903 (C.D. Calif.) 

(Snyder,
 J.), 3:12-cv-6571 (N.D. Calif.) (Conti, J.), 3:13-cv-106 (N.D. Calif.) (Beeler, J.), 4:13-cv-108 (N.D. Calif.) (Ryu, J.), 3:13-cv-109 (N.D. Calif.) (Laporte, J.), 5:13-cv-62 (C.D. Calif.) (Phillips, J.), 3:13-cv-48 (S.D. Calif.) 
(Huff, J.), 1:13-cv-346 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.), 1:13-cv-407 (S.D.N.Y.) 

(Buchwald, J.), 5:13-cv-122 (C.D. Calif.) (Bernal, J.), 1:13-cv-981 (S.D.N.Y.) 

(Buchwald, J.), and 1:13-cv-1016 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.).
In addition, on November 27, 2012, an action captioned MARAGOS V. 
BANK OF AMERICA CORP. ET AL. was filed on behalf of the County of Nassau 

against various USD LIBOR panel banks, including Citibank, N.A., and the 

other defendants with whom the plaintiff had entered into interest rate swap 

transactions. The action was commenced in state court and subsequently 

removed to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. 

The plaintiff asserts claims for fraud and deceptive trade practices under New 

York law against the panel bank defendants based on allegations that the 

panel banks colluded to artificially suppress USD LIBOR, thereby lowering the 

payments the plaintiff received in connection with various interest rate swap 

transactions. The plaintiff seeks compensatory damages and treble damages. 

The defendants have sought consolidation of this action with the MDL 

proceeding. Additional information concerning this action is publicly available 

in court filings under docket number 2:12-cv-6294 (E.D.N.Y.) (Spatt, J.).
Separately, on April 30, 2012, an action was filed in the United States 
District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of a putative 

class of persons and entities who transacted in exchange-traded Euroyen 
futures and option contracts between June 2006 and September 2010. This 
action is captioned LAYDON V. MIZUHO BANK LTD. ET AL. The plaintiff 

filed an amended complaint on November 30, 2012, naming as defendants 
banks that are or were members of the panels making submissions used in 
the calculation of Japanese yen LIBOR and TIBOR, and certain affiliates of 
some of those banks, including Citibank, N.A., Citigroup, CJL and CGMJ. The 
complaint alleges that the plaintiffs were injured as a result of purported 
manipulation of those reference interest rates, and asserts claims arising 
under the Commodity Exchange Act and the Sherman Act and for unjust 
enrichment. Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, treble damages under 
the Sherman Act, and injunctive relief. Additional information concerning 
this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 
12-cv-3419 (S.D.N.Y.) (Daniels, J.).
Beginning in 2005, several putative class actions were filed against Citigroup 
and Related Parties, together with Visa, MasterCard and other banks and 
their affiliates, in various federal district courts and consolidated with other 
related cases in a multi-district litigation proceeding before Judge Gleeson 
in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. This 
proceeding is captioned IN RE PAYMENT CARD INTERCHANGE FEE AND 
MERCHANT DISCOUNT ANTITRUST LITIGATION.The plaintiffs, merchants that accept Visa- and MasterCard-branded 
payment cards as well as membership associations that claim to represent 
certain groups of merchants, allege, among other things, that defendants 
have engaged in conspiracies to set the price of interchange and merchant 
discount fees on credit and debit card transactions and to restrain trade 
through various Visa and MasterCard rules governing merchant conduct, all 

in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act and certain California statutes. 
Plaintiffs seek, on behalf of classes of U.S. merchants, treble damages, 
including all interchange fees paid to all Visa and MasterCard members 

with respect to Visa and MasterCard transactions in the U.S. since at least 

January 1, 2004, as well as injunctive relief. Supplemental complaints have also been filed against defendants in the putative class actions alleging that 
Visa™s and MasterCard™s respective initial public offerings were anticompetitive 
and violated Section 7 of the Clayton Act, and that MasterCard™s initial public 

offering constituted a fraudulent conveyance.On July 13, 2012, all parties to the putative class actions, including Citigroup and Related Parties, entered into a Memorandum of Understanding 

(MOU) setting forth the material terms of a class settlement. The class 
settlement contemplated by the MOU provides for, among other things, a 

total payment by all defendants to the class of $6.05 billion; a rebate to merchants participating in the damages class settlement of 10 basis points on 
interchange collected for a period of eight months by the Visa and MasterCard 
networks; changes to certain network rules that would permit merchants 
to surcharge some payment card transactions subject to certain limitations 
and conditions, including disclosure to consumers at the point of sale; and 
broad releases in favor of the defendants. Subsequently, all defendants and 

certain of the plaintiffs who had entered into the MOU executed a settlement 
agreement consistent with the terms of the MOU.287On November 27, 2012, the court entered an order granting preliminary approval of the proposed class settlements and provisionally certified two classes for settlement purposes only. The court scheduled a final approval 

hearing for September 12, 2013. Several large merchants and associations 
have stated publicly that they intend to object to or opt out of the settlement, 
and have appealed from the court™s preliminary approval of the proposed 

class settlements.Visa and MasterCard have also entered into a settlement agreement 
with merchants that filed individual, non-class actions. While Citigroup 
and Related Parties are not parties to the individual merchant non-class 
settlement agreement, they are contributing to that settlement, and 
the agreement provides for a release of claims against Citigroup and 
Related Parties.Additional information concerning these consolidated actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket number MDL 05-1720 (E.D.N.Y.) (Gleeson, J.).Certain of Citi™s consumer businesses, including its Citi-branded and retail 
services cards businesses, offer or have in the past offered or participated 
in the marketing, distribution, or servicing of products, such as payment 
protection and identity monitoring, that are ancillary to the provision of 
credit to the consumer (add-on products). These add-on products have been 
the subject of enforcement actions against other institutions by regulators, 
including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the OCC, and 
the FDIC, that have resulted in orders to pay restitution to customers and 
penalties in substantial amounts. Certain state attorneys general also have 
filed industry-wide suits under state consumer protection statutes, alleging 
deceptive marketing practices in connection with the sale of payment 
protection products and demanding restitution and statutory damages for in-
state customers. In light of the current regulatory focus on add-on products 
and the actions regulators have taken in relation to other credit card issuers, 
one or more regulators may order that Citi pay restitution to customers 
and/or impose penalties or other relief arising from Citi™s marketing, 
distribution, or servicing of add-on products.On July 29, 2004, Dr. Enrico Bondi, the Extraordinary Commissioner 
appointed under Italian law to oversee the administration of various 
Parmalat companies, filed a complaint in New Jersey state court against 
Citigroup and Related Parties alleging, among other things, that the 
defendants ﬁfacilitatedﬂ a number of frauds by Parmalat insiders. On 
October 20, 2008, following trial, a jury rendered a verdict in Citigroup™s favor on Parmalat™s claims and in favor of Citibank, N.A. on three 
counterclaims. Parmalat has exhausted all appeals, and the judgment is now 
final. Additional information concerning this matter is publicly available in 
court filings under docket number A-2654-08T2 (N.J. Sup. Ct.).Prosecutors in Parma and Milan, Italy, have commenced criminal 
proceedings against certain current and former Citigroup employees (along 

with numerous other investment banks and certain of their current and former 

employees, as well as former Parmalat officers and accountants). In the event 

of an adverse judgment against the individuals in question, the authorities 

could seek administrative remedies against Citigroup. On April 18, 2011, the 

Milan criminal court acquitted the sole Citigroup defendant of market-rigging 

charges. The Milan prosecutors have appealed part of that judgment and seek 

administrative remedies against Citigroup, which may include disgorgement 

of 70 million Euro and a fine of 900,000 Euro. Additionally, the Parmalat 
administrator filed a purported civil complaint against Citigroup in the context 

of the Parma criminal proceedings, which seeks 14 billion Euro in damages. In January 2011, certain Parmalat institutional investors filed a civil complaint 

seeking damages of approximately 130 million Euro against Citigroup and other financial institutions.In 2003, Allied Irish Bank (AIB) filed a complaint in the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to hold Citibank, N.A. 
and Bank of America, N.A., former prime brokers for AIB™s subsidiary Allfirst 
Bank (Allfirst), liable for losses incurred by Allfirst as a result of fraudulent 
and fictitious foreign currency trades entered into by one of Allfirst™s traders. 
AIB seeks compensatory damages of approximately $500 million, plus punitive damages, from Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. collectively. 
In 2006, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants™ motion 
to dismiss. In 2009, AIB filed an amended complaint. In 2012, the parties 
completed discovery and the court granted Citibank, N.A.™s motion to strike 
AIB™s demand for a jury trial. Citibank, N.A. also filed a motion for summary 
judgment, which is pending. AIB has announced a settlement with Bank 
of America, N.A. for an undisclosed amount, leaving Citibank, N.A. as the 
sole remaining defendant. Additional information concerning this matter 
is publicly available in court filings under docket number 03 Civ. 3748 
(S.D.N.Y.) (Batts, J.).Payments required in settlement agreements described above have been 
made or are covered by existing litigation accruals. *  *  *Additional matters asserting claims similar to those described above may be 
filed in the future.2882012˜˚˛˛In millions of dollars, except per share amounts
FourthThirdSecondFirst

Revenues, net of interest expense
$18,174$13,951$18,642$19,406


13,84512,22012,13412,319


3,1992,6952,8063,019

Income from continuing operations before income taxes$1,130$(964)$3,702$4,068

(206)(1,488)7151,006

Income from continuing operations$1,336$524$2,987$3,062


(112)(31)(1)(5)
⁄˛
Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$1,224$493$2,986$3,057

282540126

Citigroup™s net income
$1,196$468$2,946$2,931

Earnings per share (1)(2)Basic
$0.43$0.17$0.98$0.98
˛ƒ˛˚˛ƒ˚˛
0.390.150.980.98
˛ƒ˛˜˛ƒ˚˜
Diluted

0.420.160.950.96

0.380.150.950.95

Common stock price per share (2)$40.17$34.79$36.87$38.08

32.7525.2424.8228.17

39.5632.7227.4136.55

0.010.010.010.01
˚ƒ˚˛˚ƒ˚˛˚ƒ˚˛⁄
’™
‡˛…
ƒ
‡˜…

[End of Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements]2892012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚
˝˙ˆ˙ˇ
0.39%

†˛“4.1

†˜“4.1
š
9.7

†•“1.6‡…
†˛“


†˜“



†•“
‡…2012˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚In millions of dollars at year end
Average 
interest rateAverage 
balanceƒ

ƒ
ƒ

ƒ
0.71%$71,624
‹‹
0.84217,806


†˜“1.28259,753

Total
1.03%$549,183
‹‹
†˛“

†˜“


In millions of dollars 
at December 31, 2012
Under 3  
monthsOver 3 to 6 monthsOver 6 to 12 monthsOver 12 months
$2,991$1,580$1,156$2,201
20842301,843
290
Citigroup is subject to regulation under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as applicable laws in the other jurisdictions in which it does business.As a registered bank holding company and financial holding company, 
Citigroup is regulated and supervised by the Federal Reserve Board. 
Citigroup™s nationally chartered subsidiary banks, including Citibank, N.A., 
are regulated and supervised by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
(OCC) and its state-chartered depository institution by the relevant state™s 
banking department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). 
The FDIC also has back-up enforcement authority for banking subsidiaries 
whose deposits it insures. Overseas branches of Citibank, N.A. are regulated 
and supervised by the Federal Reserve Board and OCC and overseas subsidiary 
banks by the Federal Reserve Board. Such overseas branches and subsidiary 
banks are also regulated and supervised by regulatory authorities in the 
host countries.A U.S. financial holding company and the companies under its control are permitted to engage in a broader range of activities in the U.S. and 
abroad than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. 
Unless otherwise limited by the Federal Reserve Board, financial holding 
companies generally can engage, directly or indirectly in the U.S. and 
abroad, in financial activities, either de novo or by acquisition, by providing 
after-the-fact notice to the Federal Reserve Board. These financial activities include underwriting and dealing in securities, insurance underwriting 
and brokerage and making investments in non-financial companies for a 
limited period of time, as long as Citi does not manage the non-financial 
company™s day-to-day activities, and its banking subsidiaries engage only 

in permitted cross-marketing with the non-financial company. If Citigroup 

ceases to qualify as a financial holding company, it could be barred from new 

financial activities or acquisitions, and have to discontinue the broader range 
of activities permitted to financial holding companies.Citi is permitted to acquire U.S. depository institutions, including out-of-state banks, subject to certain restrictions and the prior approval of federal 
banking regulators. In addition, intrastate bank mergers are permitted 
and banks in states that do not prohibit out-of-state mergers may merge. A 
national bank can generally also establish a new branch in any state (to the 
same extent as banks organized in the subject state) and state banks may 
establish a branch in another state if permitted by the other state. However, 

all bank holding companies, including Citigroup, must obtain the prior 
approval of the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring more than 5% of 
any class of voting stock of a U.S. depository institution or bank holding 
company. The Federal Reserve Board must also approve certain additional 

capital contributions to an existing non-U.S. investment and certain 
acquisitions by Citigroup of an interest in a non-U.S. company, including 

in a foreign bank, as well as the establishment by Citibank, N.A. of foreign 
branches in certain circumstances.For more information on U.S. and foreign regulation affecting Citigroup and its subsidiaries, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠRegulatory Risksﬂ above.Proposals to change the laws and regulations affecting the banking and 
financial services industries are frequently introduced in Congress, before 
regulatory bodies and abroad that may affect the operating environment of 
Citigroup and its subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. This 
has been particularly true as a result of the financial crisis. Citigroup cannot 
determine whether any such proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, 
the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation or implementing 
regulations would have upon the financial condition or results of operations 
of Citigroup or its subsidiaries. For additional information regarding recently 
enacted and proposed legislative and regulatory initiatives, including 
significant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that have not been fully 
implemented by the U.S. banking agencies, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠRegulatory 
Risksﬂ above.Citigroup and its banking subsidiaries are subject to other regulatory 
limitations, including requirements for banks to maintain reserves against 
deposits, requirements as to risk-based capital and leverage (see ﬁCapital 
Resources and LiquidityŠCapital Resourcesﬂ above and Note 20 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements), restrictions on the types and amounts 
of loans that may be made and the interest that may be charged, and 
limitations on investments that can be made and services that can be offered. 
The Federal Reserve Board may also expect Citigroup to commit resources 
to its subsidiary banks in certain circumstances. Citigroup is also subject to 
anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws, including standards 
for verifying client identification at account opening and obligations to 
monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities.Citigroup conducts securities underwriting, brokerage and dealing activities 
in the U.S. through Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (CGMI), its primary 
broker-dealer, and other broker-dealer subsidiaries, which are subject to 
regulations of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and 
certain exchanges, among others. Citigroup conducts similar securities 
activities outside the U.S., subject to local requirements, through various 
subsidiaries and affiliates, principally Citigroup Global Markets Limited 
in London, which is regulated principally by the U.K. Financial Services 
Authority, and Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo, which is 
regulated principally by the Financial Services Agency of Japan.291Citigroup also has subsidiaries that are members of futures exchanges and are registered accordingly. In the U.S., CGMI is a member of the 
principal U.S. futures exchanges, and Citigroup has subsidiaries that are 
registered as futures commission merchants and commodity pool operators 
with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CTFC). On December 

31, 2012, Citibank, N.A., CGMI, and Citigroup Energy Inc., registered as 
swap dealers with the CFTC. CGMI is also subject to Rule 15c3-1 of the SEC 
and Rule 1.17 of the CTFC, which specify uniform minimum net capital 
requirements. Compliance with these rules could limit those operations of 
CGMI that require the intensive use of capital, such as underwriting and 
trading activities and the financing of customer account balances, and also 
limits the ability of broker-dealers to transfer large amounts of capital to 
parent companies and other affiliates. See also ﬁCapital ResourcesŠBroker-
Dealer Subsidiariesﬂ and Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for a further discussion of capital considerations of Citigroup™s non-
banking subsidiaries.Citigroup is currently subject to restrictions on its ability to pay common 
stock dividends. See ﬁRisk FactorsŠMarket and Economic Risksﬂ above. For 
information on the ability of Citigroup™s subsidiary depository institutions 
and non-bank subsidiaries to pay dividends, see ﬁCapital ResourcesŠCapital 
Resources of Citigroup™s Subsidiary U.S. Depository Institutionsﬂ and Note 20 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements above.The types and amounts of transactions between Citigroup™s U.S. subsidiary 
depository institutions and their non-bank affiliates are regulated by 
the Federal Reserve Board, and are generally required to be on arm™s-
length terms. See also ﬁCapital Resources and LiquidityŠFunding and 
Liquidityﬂ above.
If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an FDIC-insured U.S. 
subsidiary depository institution such as Citibank, N.A., upon its insolvency or 
certain other events, the FDIC has the ability to transfer any of the depository 
institution™s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of 
the depository institution™s creditors, enforce the terms of the depository 
institution™s contracts pursuant to their terms or repudiate or disaffirm 
contracts or leases to which the depository institution is a party.Additionally, the claims of holders of deposit liabilities and certain 
claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution 
would be afforded priority over other general unsecured claims against 
such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution 
and, under current interpretation, depositors in non-U.S. offices, in the 
liquidation or other resolution of such an institution by any receiver. As a 

result, such persons would be treated differently from and could receive, 
if anything, substantially less than the depositors in U.S. offices of the 
depository institution.An FDIC-insured financial institution that is affiliated with a failed FDIC-insured institution may have to indemnify the FDIC for losses resulting from 
the insolvency of the failed institution. Such an FDIC indemnity claim is 
generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and 
its affiliates and depositors against such depository institution.Citigroup is subject to many U.S., state and international laws and 
regulations relating to policies and procedures designed to protect the non-
public information of its consumers. Citigroup must periodically disclose 
its privacy policy to consumers and must permit consumers to opt out of 
Citigroup™s ability to use such information to market to affiliates and third-
party non-affiliates under certain circumstances. See also ﬁRisk FactorsŠ
Business and Operational Risksﬂ above.

Citi, through its wholly owned banking subsidiary, Citibank, N.A., has 
branch operations in the United Arab Emirates (Citibank UAE), Bahrain 
(Citibank Bahrain), Lebanon (Citibank Lebanon) and Venezuela (Citibank 
Venezuela). These branches participate in the local government-run 
clearing and settlement exchange networks in each country for transactions 
involving automated teller machines (ATM), point-of-sale (POS) debit 
card transactions and/or the clearing and settlement of domestic checks. In 
addition, as required by the local law and the applicable operating rules for 
these exchange networks, all network participants, including these Citibank 
branches, must process transactions in which funds are drawn from, or 
deposited into, client accounts of other network participants.292The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) has been aware of the 
requirement for financial institutions operating within a particular country to participate in these local government-run clearing and exchange networks 
(including the participation of these Citi branches in such networks), despite 
the fact that certain banks that have been designated for sanctions by OFAC 

based on their ties to Iran and involvement in certain activities (OFAC 

Designated Banks) also participate in these networks.Beginning in 2007, Citi, on behalf of its Citibank UAE branches, engaged with OFAC on a series of license applications. In October 2011, OFAC granted 

a license providing relief for check-clearing transactions involving Bank 
Melli and Bank Saderat, two OFAC Designated Banks participating in the 

UAE network, and in October 2012, OFAC renewed the original license and 

expanded its scope to encompass ATM and POS transactions (UAE License). 

Citi also engaged with OFAC and filed license applications between 2007 

and 2011 on behalf of its Citibank Bahrain, Citibank Lebanon and Citibank 
Venezuela branches; these applications are pending with OFAC.
Prior to receiving the UAE License, during 2012, Citibank UAE processed approximately 5,350 ATM and POS transactions (or approximately 0.3% 

of all ATM and POS transactions for Citibank UAE during this time period) 

involving Bank Melli and Bank Saderat. These transactions resulted in 
approximately $2,200.00 gross revenues and approximately $1,100.00 net 
income to Citi.During 2012, Citibank Bahrain processed approximately 8,800 domestic 
check and ATM transactions (or approximately 2.1% of all domestic check 

and ATM transactions for Citibank Bahrain during 2012) involving Future 

Bank, an OFAC Designated Bank. The domestic check transactions resulted 

in no revenues or net income to Citi. The ATM transactions resulted in 

approximately $250.00 gross revenues and approximately $125.00 net 
income to Citi.During 2012, Citibank Lebanon processed approximately 180 domestic 
check transactions (which in aggregate, equaled approximately $890,000.00) 
involving Bank Saderat, an OFAC Designated Bank. The transactions resulted 

in less than $10.00 in gross revenue and net income to Citi.During 2012, Citibank Venezuela processed a total of four domestic 
check transactions (which in aggregate, equaled approximately $1,000.00) 

involving Banco Internacional de Desarrollo, an OFAC Designated Bank. The 

transactions resulted in no revenues or net income to Citi.In addition to the exchange network transactions described above, Citi, through its subsidiary in Germany (Citi Germany AG), processed one wire 
transfer in early 2012 that involved Europaisch Iranische Handlesbank 
(EIH), an OFAC Designated Bank. The transfer was originated by the Central 

Bank of Germany (Bundesbank) from an EIH account in favor of a customer 
of Citi Germany AG. The transfer was licensed by the Bundesbank, which 
directed that the transfer be made. The transfer was also permissible under 
U.S. law pursuant to an exemption for informational materials under OFAC™s 

Iran sanctions program and involved a German subsidiary, which was 

not subject to the Iran sanctions program at the time of the transfer. This 

transaction did not generate any revenue for Citi. Further, in 2011, a German court ordered the London branch of Citibank, 
N.A. to transfer a payment, previously blocked by Citi, to Bank Melli through 
the Bundesbank. The transfer was permissible under EU law and did not 
require regulatory licenses in either England or Germany, but required 

OFAC authorization, which was granted to Citi in 2011. The blocked funds 

were transferred in 2011 pursuant to the OFAC license, but a small amount 

of accrued interest related to the 2011 payment was made during 2012, 
pursuant to the same OFAC license. This transaction did not generate any 

revenue for Citi.In Citigroup™s judgment, no material part of Citigroup™s business depends 
upon a single customer or group of customers, the loss of which would have 
a materially adverse effect on Citi, and no one customer or group of affiliated 
customers accounts for at least 10% of Citigroup™s consolidated revenues.The financial services industry, including each of Citigroup™s businesses, 
is highly competitive. Citigroup™s competitors include a variety of other 
financial services and advisory companies such as banks, thrifts, credit 
unions, credit card issuers, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, 
investment banking companies, brokerage firms, investment advisory 
companies, hedge funds, private equity funds, securities processing 
companies, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, automobile 
financing companies, and internet-based financial services companies.Citigroup competes for clients and capital (including deposits and funding in the short- and long-term debt markets) with some of these 
competitors globally and with others on a regional or product basis. 
Citigroup™s competitive position depends on many factors, including the 

value of Citi™s brand name, reputation, the types of clients and geographies 

served, the quality, range, performance, innovation and pricing of products 

and services, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels, 
technology advances, customer service and convenience, effectiveness 
of transaction execution, interest rates and lending limits, regulatory 
constraints and the effectiveness of sales promotion efforts. Citigroup™s ability 

to compete effectively also depends upon its ability to attract new employees 
and retain and motivate existing employees, while managing compensation 
and other costs. See ﬁRisk FactorsŠBusiness and Operational Risksﬂ above.293In recent years, Citigroup has experienced intense price competition in some of its businesses. For example, the increased pressure on trading commissions from growing direct access to automated, electronic markets 
may continue to impact Securities and Banking, and technological 
advances that enable more companies to provide funds transfers may 
diminish the importance of Global Consumer Banking™s
 role as a 
financial intermediary.Over time, there has been substantial consolidation among companies in certain sectors of the financial services industry. This consolidation 

accelerated in recent years as a result of the financial crisis, through mergers, 
acquisitions and bankruptcies, and may produce larger, better capitalized 

and more geographically diverse competitors able to offer a wider array of 
products and services at more competitive prices around the world.Citigroup™s principal executive offices are located at 399 Park Avenue in 
New York City. Citigroup, and certain of its subsidiaries, is the largest tenant, 
and the offices are the subject of a lease. Citigroup also has additional office 
space at 601 Lexington Avenue in New York City, under a long-term lease. 
Citibank, N.A. leases one building and owns a commercial condominium 
unit in a separate building in Long Island City, New York, each of which are 
fully occupied by Citigroup and certain of its subsidiaries. Citigroup has a 
long-term lease on a building at 111 Wall Street in New York City and is the 
largest tenant.Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc. leases its principal offices at 388 Greenwich Street in New York City, and also leases the neighboring building 

at 390 Greenwich Street, both of which are fully occupied by Citigroup and 
certain of its subsidiaries.Citigroup™s principal executive offices in 
EMEA are located at 25 and 33 Canada Square in London™s Canary Wharf, with both buildings subject to 

long-term leases. Citigroup is the largest tenant of 25 Canada Square and the 
sole tenant of 33 Canada Square.In Asia, Citigroup™s principal executive offices are in leased premises 
located at Citibank Tower in Hong Kong. Citigroup also has significant lease 

premises in Singapore and Japan. Citigroup has major or full ownership 
interests in country headquarter locations in Shanghai, Seoul, Kuala 
Lumpur, Manila, and Mumbai.
Citigroup™s principal executive offices in 
Latin America, which also serve as the headquarters of Banamex, are located in Mexico City, in a two-tower 

complex with six floors each, totaling 257,000 rentable square feet.Citigroup also owns or leases over 72.7 million square feet of real estate in 100 countries, comprised of 12,074 properties.Citigroup continues to evaluate its current and projected space requirements and may determine from time to time that certain of its 
premises and facilities are no longer necessary for its operations. There is no 
assurance that Citigroup will be able to dispose of any such excess premises 
or that it will not incur charges in connection with such dispositions. Such 
disposition costs may be material to Citigroup™s operating results in a 

given period.Citi has developed programs for its properties to achieve long-term energy efficiency objectives and reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to lessen 
its impact on climate change. Citi has also integrated a climate change 
adaptation strategy into its operational strategy, which includes redundancy measures, to address risks from climate change and weather influenced 
events. These activities could help to mitigate, but will not eliminate, Citi™s 

potential risk from future climate change regulatory requirements or Citi™s 

risk of increased costs from extreme weather events.For further information concerning leases, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.For a discussion of Citigroup™s litigation and related matters, see Note 28 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.294None.Under its currently existing repurchase program, Citigroup may buy back common shares in the market or otherwise from time to time. This program may be used for many purposes, including offsetting dilution from stock-based compensation programs. Any repurchase program is subject to regulatory approval (see 
ﬁRisk FactorsŠBusiness and Operational Risksﬂ above). The following table summarizes Citigroup™s share repurchases during 2012:In millions, except per share amounts
Total shares 
purchased (1)Average 
price paid per shareApproximate dollar value of shares that 
may yet be purchased under the plan or programsFirst quarter 2012†˛“0.1$36.58
$6,726
†˜“1.429.26N/ATotal first quarter 2012
1.5$29.85
$6,726
Second quarter 2012†˛“Š$Š
$6,726
†˜“0.132.62N/ATotal second quarter 2012
0.1$32.62
$6,726
Third quarter 2012†˛“Š$Š
$6,726
†˜“ŠŠN/ATotal third quarter 2012
ŠŠ$6,726
October 2012†˛“Š$Š
$6,726
†˜“ŠŠN/ANovember 2012
†˛“ŠŠ6,726†˜“ŠŠN/ADecember 2012†˛“ŠŠ6,726†˜“0.136.03N/AFourth quarter 2012†˛“Š$Š
$6,726
†˜“0.136.03N/ATotal fourth quarter 2012
0.1$36.03
$6,726
Year-to-date 2012
†˛“0.1$36.58
$6,726
†˜“1.629.68N/ATotal year-to-date 2012
1.7$30.17
$6,726
†˛“

ˇˇ
†˜“


‡Œƒ
For so long as the FDIC continues to hold any Citigroup trust preferred securities acquired pursuant to the exchange offers consummated in 
2009, Citigroup is, subject to certain exemptions, generally restricted from 
redeeming or repurchasing any of its equity or trust preferred securities, 
which restriction may be waived.295For a summary of the cash dividends paid on Citi™s outstanding common stock during 2011 and 2012, see Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. For as long as the FDIC continues to hold any Citigroup trust 
preferred securities acquired pursuant to the exchange offers consummated 
in 2009, Citigroup is generally restricted from paying regular cash dividends 
in excess of $0.01 per share of common stock per quarter, which restriction 
may be waived. Further, any dividend on Citi™s outstanding common 
stock would need to be made in compliance with Citi™s obligations to any 
remaining outstanding Citigroup preferred stock.The following graph and table compare the cumulative total return on 
Citigroup™s common stock with the cumulative total return of the S&P 
500 Index and the S&P Financial Index over the five-year period through 
December 31, 2012. The graph and table assume that $100 was invested on 
December 31, 2007 in Citigroup™s common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the 
S&P Financial Index, and that all dividends were reinvested.02550
75100
125Citigroup
S&P 500 IndexS&P Financial Index
For the years ended
201220072008200920102011š”
˝‰š‰


296Citigroup™s executive officers as of March 1, 2013 are:NameAgePosition and office held
˝”−›
•‘˝”−›
š
š
ˆ
˝”−›

˝”−›


‘˜
‘•˝”−›
‘˜
˝”−›


˝”−›
£
£‘˜
Each executive officer has held executive or management positions with Citigroup for at least five years, except that:Mr. Leach became Citi™s Head of Franchise Risk and Strategy in January 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Leach was Chief Risk Officer beginning March 
2008. Previously, Mr. Leach was a founder and the co-COO of Old Lane, 
LP, a multi-strategy hedge fund and private equity fund manager that was 
acquired by Citi in 2007. Earlier, he had worked for his entire financial 
career at Morgan Stanley, finishing as Risk Manager of the Institutional 
Securities Business.Mr. McQuade joined Citi in 2009. Prior to joining Citi, Mr. McQuade was 
Vice Chairman of Merrill Lynch and President of Merrill Lynch Banks 
(U.S.) from February 2008 until February 2009. Previously, he was the 
President and Chief Operating Officer of Freddie Mac for three years. Prior 
to joining Freddie Mac in 2004, Mr. McQuade served as President of Bank 
of America Corporation.Mr. Weerasinghe joined Citi in June 2012. Prior to joining Citi, Mr. 
Weerasinghe was Senior Partner at Shearman & Sterling.Citigroup has a Code of Conduct that maintains its commitment to the 
highest standards of conduct. The Code of Conduct is supplemented 
by a Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals (including accounting, 
controllers, financial reporting operations, financial planning and analysis, 
treasury, tax, strategy and M&A, investor relations and regional/product 
finance professionals and administrative staff) that applies worldwide. The 
Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals applies to Citigroup™s principal 
executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting 
officer. Amendments and waivers, if any, to the Code of Ethics for Financial 
Professionals will be disclosed on Citi™s website, www.citigroup.com.
Both the Code of Conduct and the Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals can be found on the Citigroup website by clicking on ﬁAbout 
Us,ﬂ and then ﬁCorporate Governance.ﬂ Citi™s Corporate Governance 

Guidelines can also be found there, as well as the charters for the Audit 
Committee, the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee, 
the Personnel and Compensation Committee and the Risk Management 
and Finance Committee of the Board. These materials are also available 
by writing to Citigroup Inc., Corporate Governance, 601 Lexington Avenue, 

19th Floor, New York, New York 10022.
297Citigroup common stock is listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol ﬁCﬂ and on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Mexico Stock Exchange. Citigroup 
preferred stock Series F, T and AA are also listed on the NYSE.Because Citigroup™s common stock is listed on the NYSE, the Chief 
Executive Officer is required to make an annual certification to the NYSE 
stating that he was not aware of any violation by Citigroup of the corporate 
governance listing standards of the NYSE. The annual certification to that 
effect was made to the NYSE on May 20, 2012.As of January 31, 2013, Citigroup had approximately 104,511 common stockholders of record. This figure does not represent the actual number of 
beneficial owners of common stock because shares are frequently held in 
ﬁstreet nameﬂ by securities dealers and others for the benefit of individual 
owners who may vote the shares.Stockholder address changes and inquiries regarding stock transfers, dividend 
replacement, 1099-DIV reporting and lost securities for common and 
preferred stock should be directed to: Computershare 
P.O. Box 43078

Providence, RI 02940-3078 
Telephone No. 781 575 4555 

Toll-free No. 888 250 3985 

E-mail address: shareholder@computershare.com
Web address: www.computershare.com/investor
Holders of Golden State Bancorp, Associates First Capital Corporation, 
Citicorp or Salomon Inc. common stock, Citigroup Inc. Preferred Stock 
Series Q, S or T, or Salomon Inc. Preferred Stock Series D should arrange to 
exchange their certificates by contacting: Computershare 
P.O. Box 43078 

Providence, RI 02940-3078 
Telephone No. 781 575 4555

Toll-free No. 888 250 3985

E-mail address: shareholder@computershare.com 
Web address: www.computershare.com/investor 

On May 9, 2011, Citi effected a 1-for-10 reverse stock split. All Citi common 
stock certificates issued prior to that date must be exchanged for new 
certificates by contacting Computershare at the address noted above.Citi™s 2012 Form 10-K filed with the SEC, as well as other annual and 
quarterly reports, are available from Citi Document Services toll free at 
877 936 2737 (outside the United States at 716 730 8055), by e-mailing a request to docserve@citi.com, or by writing to: Citi Document Services 
540 Crosspoint Parkway 
Getzville, NY 14068Information about Citi, including quarterly earnings releases and filings with 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, can be accessed via its website 
at www.citigroup.com. Stockholder inquiries can also be directed by e-mail to 
shareholderrelations@citi.com.298Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 1st day 
of March, 2013.Citigroup Inc.
(Registrant)John C. Gerspach 
Chief Financial OfficerPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 1st day of March, 2013.Citigroup™s Principal Executive Officer and a Director:Michael L. CorbatCitigroup™s Principal Financial Officer:John C. Gerspach
Citigroup™s Principal Accounting Officer:Jeffrey R. WalshThe Directors of Citigroup listed below executed a power of attorney appointing John C. Gerspach their attorney-in-fact, empowering him to sign 
this report on their behalf.




š



John C. Gerspach299Chief Executive OfficerCitigroup Inc.Chairman 
Roche Holding Ltd.Professor of Finance Emeritus andFormer DeanStanford UniversityGraduate School of BusinessChairman 
Citigroup Inc.;
Former Chairman andChief Executive OfficerBank of Hawaii CorporationSenior Advisor
IBM Corporation;Jones Day; and Lazard Ltd.President
Rockefeller FoundationChief Financial Officer, Retired
Medtronic Inc.Former President
Federal Reserve Bank ofPhiladelphiaSenior Research Scholar 
Columbia University School of International 
and Public AffairsManaging Director
Wolfensohn FundManagement, L.P.
Chief Executive Officer, Retired
Pacific InvestmentManagement Company
(PIMCO)Director, Center for theStudy of Globalization;
Professor in the Field
of International
Economics and PoliticsYale UniversityThe cover and editorial section of this annual report are printed on McCoy, manufactured by Sappi Fine Paper North America with 10% PCW 
 and FSC
® Chain of Custody Certi˜cation. 100% of the electricity used to manufacture McCoy is Green-e
® certi˜ed renewable energy. 
The ˜nancial section of this annual report is printed on FSC
® certi˜ed Accent
® Opaque from International Paper. International Paper is certi˜ed to 
both the FSC
® Chain of Custody standard (BV-COC-080209) and the SFI Chain of Custody standard (BV-COC-209908-B).
iPad is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in 

the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.
Produced by Citi Graphic Communications.
Common Stock
Citigroup common stock is listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange (NYSE) under the ticker symbol ﬁCﬂ and on the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Mexico Stock Exchange. 

 Citigroup preferred stock Series F, T and AA also are listed 
 on the NYSE.
Because Citigroup™s common stock is listed on the NYSE, 
 the Chief Executive Of˜cer is required to make an annual 
certi˜cation to the NYSE stating that he was not aware of 
any violation by Citigroup of the corporate governance listing 

standards of the NYSE. The annual certi˜cation to that effect 
was made to the NYSE on May 16, 2012.
As of January 31, 2013, Citigroup had approximately 104,511 
common stockholders of record. This ˜gure does not 
 represent the actual number of bene˜cial owners of common 
stock because shares frequently are held in ﬁstreet nameﬂ 

by securities dealers and others for the bene˜t of individual 
 owners who may vote the shares.
Transfer Agent
Stockholder address changes and inquiries regarding stock 
transfers, dividend replacement, 1099-DIV reporting and lost 
securities for common stock should be directed to:
 Computershare 
 P.O. Box 43078 
 Providence, RI 02940-3078 
 
Telephone No.: 781 575 4555 
 Toll-Free No.: 888 250 3985 
 E-mail Address: shareholder@computershare.com 
 
Web Address: www.computershare.com/investor
Exchange Agent

Holders of Golden State Bancorp, Associates First Capital 
 Corporation, Citicorp or Salomon Inc common stock, or 
 Citigroup Inc. Preferred Stock Series Q or T should arrange 
 to exchange their certi˜cates by contacting:
Computershare 
 P.O. Box 43078 
 
Providence, RI 02940-3078 
 Telephone No.: 781 575 4555 
 Toll-Free No.: 888 250 3985 
 
E-mail Address: shareholder@computershare.com 
 Web Address: www.computershare.com/investor 
On May 9, 2011, Citi effected a 1 for 10 reverse stock split. 
 All Citi common stock certi˜cates issued prior to that date 
must be exchanged for new certi˜cates by contacting 
 Computershare at the addresses noted above.
Citi™s 2012 Form 10-K ˜led with the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC), as well as other annual and 
quarterly reports, is available from Citi Document Services 

toll-free at 877 936 2737 (outside the United States at 
 716 730 8055), by e-mailing a request to docserve@citi.com 
 or by writing to:
Citi Document Services 
 540 Crosspoint Parkway 
 Getzville, NY 14068
Stockholder Inquiries
Information about Citi, including quarterly earnings releases 
and ˜lings with the SEC, can be accessed via our website at 

www.citigroup.com.
Stockholder inquiries also can be directed by e-mail to 
 shareholderrelations@citi.com.
Stockholder Information
TAKE A CLOSER LOOK
 AT CITI WITH 
 Citi® News App for iPad
www.citigroup.com
© 2013 Citigroup Inc.
 1028228
 CIT24021
 3/13
